UNIT 1: What is Cybersecurity
This unit, which should take 3 weeks, introduces students to the field of cybersecurity. This unit
focuses on laying the foundation for students' cybersecurity journey. The two critical elements
are: first, learning and instilling the cyber mindsets, and second, a strong understanding of the
field, what it is, and what it is not. The main outcome of this unit is that students should be
excited about and have a strong foundation for the first year of cybersecurity.
K-12 CYBERSECURITY STANDARDS
Core Concept: Digital Citizenship (DC) and Cybersecurity Foundations
Sub Concept: Cybersecurity Mindsets and Cybersecurity Landscape
Topic(s): Threat Actors (THRT), Digital Footprint (FOOT), PII (PII)
Grade Band:
● 9-12.DC.THRT Analyze the motives of threat actors
● 9-12.DC.FOOT Examine the implications of digital footprint
● 9-12.DC.PII.1 Explain the importance of social identity and the implications of online activity regarding private data, long-term career impacts,
and the permanence of digital data.
● 9-12.DC.PPI.2 Explain the individual risks of a data breach to an organization housing personal data.
WHAT IS SECURITY+
The Security+ certification is widely recognized in the field of information security. It covers the fundamentals of security, including network security,
compliance and operational security, threats and vulnerabilities, application, data and host security, access control and identity management, and
cryptography. In each of the following units, you will find information about the Security+ certification and the main topics for that unit in this space.
For Unit 1, a student must understand threat actors and types of attacks well. Here are the areas to concentrate:
● 2.1 Threat Actors: Compare and contrast common threat actors and motivators.
● 2.2 Attacks: Explain common threat vectors and attack surfaces
Cybersecurity Learning Objectives
1. Develop a foundational understanding of the cybersecurity field.
2. Prepare for real-world experiences by completing PC/Trusted Sec
Certification preparation activities.
Recommended Resources:
1. pnwcyber.com
2. CyberSeek
3. Kapersky Cyber Threat Map

-- 1 of 15 --

3. Explore historical cybersecurity incidents and the present global
cyber threat landscape to understand the evolution of cybersecurity.
4. Explore a variety of cybersecurity careers and identify three
cybersecurity careers of personal interest to include in their
portfolio.
5. Identify the Cyber Mindsets and explain how they connect to
cybersecurity competitions and their personal portfolio.
6. Describe ethical considerations in real-world digital scenarios.
7. Prepare for real-world experiences by completing PC/Trusted Sec
Certification preparation activities.
8. Define Capture the Flag (CTF) challenges and explain why they are
important to cybersecurity education.
4. Live Cyber Threat Map
5. NETSCOUT Omnis Threat Map
6. Cybersecurity Scenario EMATE
Real-World Learning and PC10
● Real World Learning
o Unit Portfolio
● PC10 - Relentless Curiosity
o Cybersecurity is constantly evolving, and successful
professionals must be constantly learning and finding
solutions to new challenges. Industry partners regularly
say that passion and curiosity are the key attributes that
they look for in employees.
Industry Experts
● The industry expert best suited for Unit 1 is someone who can
get the students excited about the course and program. They
don’t need to have any specific cyber content expertise, but
the ability to share engaging stories and energize students is
a priority. The ability to discuss the importance of
cybersecurity mindsets and soft skills is critical.
INSTRUCTIONAL STRATEGIES GUIDE
Use this instructional strategies guide to learn more about different instructional strategies used in Paradigm’s courses and how to best implement them.
PARADIGM LEARNING PROCESS
Paradigm uses the “Play, Learn, Perform” learning process. This process is designed to help
students develop the skills and knowledge needed for a career in cybersecurity.
Play
Students begin new topics by diving
right into hands-on application. This is
a risk-free environment for students to
experience new learning.
Learn
After students develop curiosity,
real-world application context, and a
conceptual framework, they will then
engage in targeted learning.
Perform
The ability to perform and apply learning is critical.
However, each student will and should be at different levels
of performance depending on strengths, topics, and
experience. Performance should focus on capturing
evidence, reflection and developing growth goals.

-- 2 of 15 --

Extend
Extend activities are optional for students. However, they are designed to provide opportunities to extend and personalize learning beyond the
classroom. Extend activities help develop the cyber mindsets.
UNIT 1 GUIDANCE
This Paradigm Cyber Ventures: Resource Guide gives teachers a quick overview of all Paradigm Cyber Ventures resources and how
they support the “Play, Learn, Perform” model. It explains when and how to use core lessons, CTFs, interactives, tabletop scenarios, and
the Cyber Essentials certification so teachers can plan effectively and create meaningful cybersecurity learning experiences for students.
Play (1 day)
Jump right into a PCV “play” challenge. Do this to build understanding of the cyber mindsets (play, learn, perform and passion, curiosity, and
performance). Teachers can expect students to experience “productive struggle” by jumping right in, and teachers will need to encourage students
through this process.
PCV Play Activity: Cybersecurity Scenario EMATE
These Interactives help students learn difficult concepts and were first developed under the leadership of Mike Qaissaunee at the Brookdale Cyber
Center and Dr. John Sands at CSSIA with funding from an NSF Grant. This first one puts students right in the midst of a cybersecurity scenario.
Students will likely not know all terminology or concepts yet, and that’s okay! Encourage the productive struggle here.
1. Direct students to this link for a myEMATES interactive
2. Have students complete the following interactive:
a. Cybersecurity Scenario
3. Have students complete the following reflection questions. These can be written or verbally discussed with a partner:
a. What was challenging about today’s interactive?
b. What were the most important concepts you learned in today’s interactives?

-- 3 of 15 --

c. Where might you use these concepts in real life (school, work, online life)?
d. If you had to teach someone else what you just learned, how would you explain it?
Guidance: Cybersecurity is a field where practitioners are always learning and confronted with new challenges to solve. We recommend students
jump right into challenges that they do not yet have the requisite background information to solve. We believe in setting the expectation that
cybersecurity practitioners will often learn by doing.
Learn
Instructional
Strategy: Student
Unit Portfolio
This Unit Portfolio is designed to transform students from passive consumers of information into active security analysts.
Rather than simply completing worksheets to get a grade, students are tasked with curating a professional collection of
evidence that demonstrates their true competency in cybersecurity concepts. This method allows students to move at a
flexible pace while focusing on the quality and application of their learning.
For each lesson, the “wrap-up exercise / assessment” will be the required portfolio artifact addition. Students will
complete these and add them to their portfolio throughout the unit. They will submit them all together, along with an
assessment reflection, at the end of the unit as the performance task. By the end of the unit, students will have a
comprehensive body of work that showcases not just what they know, but what they can do.
Emphasize that this is a small-scale practice activity for the larger portfolio students will be building throughout the
course.
1.1 What is
Cybersecurity?
(1-2 days)
Learning Objective: Develop a foundational understanding of the cybersecurity field.
Materials:
● Mind Map Example
● What is Cybersecurity
● Onity Student Reading Guide
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● Cybersecurity Snapshot Slide Deck
Kick Start: Mind Map
Have students consider the question: “What is cybersecurity, and what does it involve?” Have students create a “mind
map” to demonstrate their thoughts, with the word “cybersecurity” in the middle and their different ideas branching
off from that. Check HERE for an example of a mind map. Then create a class example on the board, with students
contributing their ideas from their own personal mind map. Introduce cybersecurity:
“Cybersecurity is the art of protecting the digital backbone of our entire society, from your

-- 4 of 15 --

personal texts to national power grids. This course isn't just about computers; it's about the
critical skills needed to defend people and information in an increasingly dangerous digital
world. You are stepping into a field that is vital, high-stakes, and incredibly rewarding.”
Activity 1: What is Cybersecurity
To introduce students to the field of cybersecurity, have them use this resource. With a partner, have students read the
above article and fill out this Student Reading Guide.
Activity 2: Cybersecurity Snapshot Jigsaw
Divide students into five small groups to create a “Cybersecurity Snapshot” summarizing one key concept from the
reading. Assign each group a different key concept:
● The story of Onity
● Why do we need cybersecurity?
● Where can we find cybersecurity?
● Types of Attacks
● Defenses against hacking
Each group creates a quick slide on this slide deck with the following. You will need to update the sharing settings on
your document for students to be able to create their slide:
● Summary
● Visual
● Real-world example
● Discussion question
Groups then lead a brief presentation, teaching their concept to the class. Be sure to check in with each group before
presentations to ensure that their information is accurate and engaging. As students listen, they should fill out their
Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet.
Note on Vocabulary Sheets: Each unit will have a vocabulary sheet for students to fill out as they go through the unit.
There is a teacher answer guide with the sheet filled in at the bottom of each unit’s sheet.
Wrap-Up Exercise/ Assessment (Portfolio Artifact): Reflection
Students finish with a short individual reflection on what they learned. Have them respond to the following questions
on a piece of paper or digital document:
● What is one concept about cybersecurity that you understand better now than you did at the start of class?
● Which vulnerability, attack type, or real-world example stood out to you the most, and why?
● How did the Onity case study change or deepen your understanding of why cybersecurity is important?
● Where do you see cybersecurity showing up in your own life or in the world around you? Give one example.
Consider making this a completion grade to encourage honest reflection.
1.2 Past, Present,
and Future of
Cyber
Learning Objective: Explore historical cybersecurity incidents and the present global cyber threat landscape to

-- 5 of 15 --

(3 days) understand the evolution of cybersecurity.
Materials:
● Research tools
● History of Cyber Threats and Cybersecurity Slides and Event Markers
● History of Cybersecurity
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● Suggested Threat Maps:
o Kapersky Cyber Threat Map
o Live Cyber Threat Map
o NETSCOUT Omnis Threat Map
● Canva or similar tool
● Threat Report Notes
● Sticky notes or Google slide deck
● Optional: recommended resources (see below)
Kick Start: Research Challenge
Start the day with this research challenge:
“Use your research tools available to you. Research ‘Creeper’ the first computer virus.”
Follow up by asking students these questions:
● What was the Creeper virus, and who created it?
● In what year did Creeper appear, and what type of computers did it infect?
● What message did the Creeper virus display when it infected a system?
● Was Creeper harmful or destructive? Explain its purpose.
● What program was created to remove Creeper, and why is it important in cyber history?
Activity 1: History of Cyber Threats and Cybersecurity Timeline
Use these slides to introduce students to the history of cyber threats and cybersecurity. Then divide students into small
groups. Assign each group one of the following cyber history events.
● Morris Worm
● ILOVEYOU Worm
● Stuxnet
● Yahoo Breach
● SolarWinds
● Colonial Pipeline
● CrowdStrike Outage
They will be responsible for creating an event marker for a physical timeline in your room. Each event marker should be
a piece of blank paper. In the middle should be the name of the event in large letters. Surrounding it should be
information that helps others understand the event, like:

-- 6 of 15 --

● Dates
● What happened
● Who and what was impacted
● The legacy of the event
● Visuals
● Quotes or other engaging content surrounding the event.
Once all small groups have finished their event markers, have them physically arrange it in a timeline in the room. Once
the timeline is complete, have each group share what they found about their event in chronological order. As they go,
students should record their learning on their Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet.
Activity 2: Present Cyber Threats
This activity will help students understand that cybersecurity is a global and highly active industry. Students will use
research cyber threat maps and examine them to learn about what is happening in the field. Be aware that threat
maps are not 100% accurate and are used as a way to visualize data to help others conceptualize the threat
landscape. Each map has a specific visualization goal.
Here are several threat maps you could direct students towards. Ensure that students have access to these before
using.
● Kapersky Cyber Threat Map
● Live Cyber Threat Map
● NETSCOUT Omnis Threat Map
Using these threat maps, have the students do the following:
● In groups of 2, describe what they are seeing
○ Volume, types of attacks, locations, industries, etc.
○ What new questions does this information evoke?
○ What would this data be useful for?
○ What new things did you learn, and what does this make you want to learn more about?
Activity 3 (Portfolio Artifact): Cyber Threat Report
Using Canva or a similar tool, have students create their own cyber threat report. This should be a one-pager
describing either the general threat landscape or the landscape of a specific area (DDOS, RansomWare, Hacktivists,
etc.) The goal is for students to produce a professional-looking one-pager that would be used in the industry to inform
others (other parts of the company, sell a product, etc.). Have students fill out these Threat Report Notes as they go.
Wrap-Up Exercise/ Assessment: Past, Present, Future of Cybersecurity
Instructions:
1. In groups of 3, students will complete this quick activity on a sticky note, whiteboard, or Google Slides:
○ Past: One major historical attack and its impact (e.g., Stuxnet, SolarWinds)
○ Present: One insight or stat they learned from the cyber threat maps or reports

-- 7 of 15 --

○ Future: One prediction or question they have about where cybersecurity is heading
2. Each group posts their “Past, Present, Future” summary on the wall or in a shared slide deck.
3. Gallery Walk: Groups rotate and read other entries.
As they walk, they choose one “future” question or prediction that stands out to them.
4. Class Discussion (5 min):
○ What trends did you notice?
○ What surprised you?
○ What do you think students and professionals should prepare for next?
1.3 Cyber Careers
(2 days) 	Learning Objective: Explore a variety of cybersecurity careers and identify three cybersecurity careers of
personal interest to include in their portfolio.
Materials:
● Cyber Career Playlist
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● Digital Resources
o Impact of Cybersecurity Reading
o Introduction to Cybersecurity Video
o Top 10 Cybersecurity Career Profiles
o CyberSeek
● Canva or similar tool
Kick Start: Career Brainstorm
Start the day with this question:
“As of right now…what do you think you may want to do when you grow up? (It’s okay if you don’t know!) Consider
what you may like in a job, what your strengths and passions are, and what you would be willing to work towards
through education, certifications, or other career preparations.”
Have students either record their personal thoughts on a piece of paper or share with a partner. This would be a great
exercise to return to at the end of the course!
Activity 1: Cyber Career Playlist
Tell students that today, they will be exploring the cybersecurity industry. Using this Activity Sheet, students should
begin exploring and mapping out the industry. They will be asked to explore different online resources and record their
findings as they go. They should do this independently or with a partner. Students should record notes on their Unit 1
Vocabulary Sheet.

-- 8 of 15 --

Activity 2 (Portfolio Artifact): Career Flyer
Individually or in pairs, have students:
● Using Canva or another similar program, students will create a flyer or infographic about a specific cyber career.
This could be one they researched in Activity 1 or one that you provide. This flyer should be designed to teach
others about the career and encourage them to pursue that career. It should include:
○ Career fields, job data, local analysis and salaries
○ Education, skills and certs needed
○ Other relevant information
Activity 3: Career Flyer Showcase
After students create their career flyer, have them display their flyer either digitally or physically in a location where
others will be able to easily view it (on the walls, on desks, on a class table, etc.). Have students walk around the room
and examine each others’ flyers. As they go, students should determine the top 3 careers they are most interested in
from both the flyer showcase and their research. They should record these on their Activity Sheet in the appropriate
location.
Wrap-Up Exercise/ Assessment: Cyber Career Playlist
Use the activity sheet as a formative assessment for this lesson. This should be primarily an opportunity for students
to reflect and share their thoughts with you, so consider making this a completion grade.
1.4 Cybersecurity
Mindsets, Skills,
and Competitions
(2 days)
Learning Objective: Identify the Cyber Mindsets and explain how they connect to cybersecurity competitions
and their personal portfolio.
Materials:
● Cyber Mindsets, Skills, & Competition Slides
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● Cybersecurity Character Profile
● PC10 Question Lens
Kick Start: Mindsets Discussion Question
Start the day with this question:
“What kind of mindsets and skills do you think cybersecurity professionals need to be successful in the field?”
Engage in a think-pair-share protocol:
● Have students think to themselves for 30 seconds. Optionally, have them jot ideas down on a scrap piece of paper.
● Then have students discuss with a nearby partner for 1-2 minutes.
● Lastly, come back together as a class and debrief for 2-3 minutes. Have students share out their thoughts and
encourage discussion.

-- 9 of 15 --

Activity 1: Cyber Mindsets, Skills, & Competition Slides
Use these slides and the embedded activities to introduce students to the following:
● Cyber Mindsets: These are mindsets that have been shown to be critical to professionals working in the field of
cybersecurity.
● PC10: This is a list of 10 professional skills needed to be successful in the field of cybersecurity. These will be
highlighted and embedded throughout the course.
● Cyber Competitions: Cyber competitions are a critical component to student learning and the development of
mindsets and skills. Refer to this Competition Guide for more information on different cyber competitions your
students could participate in this year.
The documents linked above can be shared with students or simply used for teacher reference. As you go through the
slides, have students record their learning on their Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet.
Activity 2: PC10 Question Lens
This activity has students apply what they have learned about the PC10 Skills. Divide students into 6 small groups.
Students will be assigned one of the PC10 skills to focus on in this activity. Present students with this scenario and ask
each group to come up with three questions they should ask about the scenario based on their assigned skill. Have
them record their ideas on a piece of paper. Then have students walk around and look at the other groups’ questions
with the challenge of trying to add one new question to each group’s paper.
PC10 Skills Highlighted:
1. Relentless Curiosity
2. Ethical Decision Making
3. Precise Documentation
4. Effective Communication
5. Inclusive Collaboration
6. Critical Analysis
Activity 3: Introduction to Cyber Portfolio
Introduce students to the Cyber Portfolio that they will be building and creating in later units. Using the Paradigm
Cyber Portfolio (Instructor Guide), discuss with students:
● What is a portfolio?
○ A professional compilation of artifacts designed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, growth, and
accomplishments over time.
● What goes in a portfolio?
○ Artifacts that demonstrate the cyber mindsets: passion, curiosity, performance.
● What portfolio will be used for?
○ Cyber Showcase
○ Internships
○ Employment
○ College
● Consider showing them this very basic Sample Cyber Portfolio as you go.

-- 10 of 15 --

Students will create portfolios and identify artifacts in a later unit.
Wrap-Up Exercise/ Assessment (Portfolio Artifact): Build Your Cybersecurity Character
Have students use this Cybersecurity Character Profile for students to evaluate themselves on their current strengths
and weaknesses when it comes to mindsets and skills. Students will be adjusting this character as they learn and grow
throughout the course, so emphasize that it should be completed based on where they currently are in their cyber
journey.
Consider having students share these with you so that you can see their ongoing updates.
1.5 Cyber Ethics
(1 day) 	Learning Objective: Describe ethical considerations in real-world digital scenarios.
Materials:
● Ethical Scenario
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● Ethics of Cybersecurity
● Cyber Ethics Contract
● pnwcyber.com
Kick Start: Ethical Scenario
Present students with this ethical scenario. Have them discuss the various options and how they would approach it.
Introduce the concept of cyber ethics and its importance. Tell students that they will be looking at ethics throughout
the course. Students should record notes on their Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet.
Activity 1: Cyber Ethics Play Games
Ethics will be woven through all 12 units. Look for the icon to the left in each unit. Just like we start every unit with
PLAY, we want to start the topic of Cyber Ethics with a PLAY activity. Below are a few different options to explore this
topic of ethics. Let your students dig in, have some fun and share with you what they have learned about cyber ethics:
● Use this site: pnwcyber.com and these games:
○ Ethics Level 1 and 2
○ Cybersecurity Ethics Scavenger Hunt
Wrap-Up Exercise/ Assessment (Portfolio Artifact): Cyber Ethics Contract
Have students read thoroughly and sign this “Cyber Ethics” Contract. This contract has students commit to behaving
ethically throughout the course and using the skills they learn in class in appropriate ways. Once students have signed
this contract, have them add it to their portfolio.
1.6 PC/Trusted Sec
Certification
(2 days)
Paradigm/TrustedSec Cyber Essentials Certification

-- 11 of 15 --

The Paradigm/TrustedSec Cyber Essentials Certification is designed for high school students who have completed
their first cybersecurity course and are ready to demonstrate their foundational knowledge. This certification validates
students’ understanding of key cybersecurity concepts, including network basics, cryptography, social engineering,
Linux, computer number systems, and common vulnerabilities such as malware. In addition to technical skills, the
certification emphasizes the PC10 — ten core skills essential for success in cybersecurity and beyond—such as ethical
decision-making, curiosity, critical analysis, and precise documentation. Earning this certification gives students a
strong start on their cybersecurity journey, offering recognition for their learning and preparing them for future
opportunities in education, certifications, and careers. It serves as both a milestone and a springboard into the
broader world of cybersecurity.
Learning Objective: Prepare for real-world experiences by completing PC/Trusted Sec Certification preparation
activities.
Materials:
● Paradigm Trusted Sec Certification Preparation
● Access to Centra
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
Kick Start: Introduce the Paradigm Trusted Sec Certification
Introduce students to the certification, emphasizing that it will serve to both demonstrate their learning in this course
as well as providing recognition of their learning and achievements for their future. Explain to students that they will
prepare for the certification at the end of each unit by completing activities related to the units’ topics and then
attempting a 10-question prep quiz.
Activity 1: Paradigm Trusted Sec Certification Preparation
Click HERE to go the Unit 1 materials to help you prepare for the certification. Have students complete each of the
activities to prepare for the Paradigm/Trusted Sec Cyber Essentials Certification.
Activity 2: Certification Prep Questions
Direct students to Centra and then the “Certifications” tab. Have students select the “Paradigm Cyber Essentials
Certification” and attempt the prep questions for Unit 1. Encourage students to reflect on the experience with a
partner, discussing what they did well on and what they struggled with.
1.7 Paradigm
Cyber CTFs
(1 day)
Overview: Paradigm Cyber Capture the Flag (CTF) challenges are hands-on puzzles that let you apply cybersecurity
skills to discover hidden “flags” and solve real-world problems. They introduce students to the mindset of investigators
and ethical hackers as they explore how systems can be attacked and defended. Teachers can also use the Paradigm
Cyber Ventures: Capture the Flag (CTF) Guide for support, navigation help, strategies, and tips to get the most out of each
challenge.
Materials:

-- 12 of 15 --

● Paradigm Cyber CTFs Introduction Scavenger Hunt
● Unit 1 Vocabulary Sheet
● CTF Scavenger Hunt and Debrief Reflection Document
Activity 1: Paradigm Cyber CTFs Introduction Scavenger Hunt
Introduce students to Capture the Flags with this activity. Use these slides to introduce students to Capture the Flag
challenges in Centra. These slides will help you walk through what they are, where to find them, how to use them, and
some examples. As you go, students will be asked to complete a scavenger hunt in Centra to find relevant items
related to CTFs. They will keep track of these on their CTF Scavenger Hunt and Debrief Reflection Document.
Emphasize to students that CTFs are an important part of this course, and they will be a regular part of each unit.
Thus, it is important for students to be familiar with them.
Wrap Up Exercise/ Assessment (Portfolio Artifact): CTF Scavenger Hunt and Debrief Reflection
Have students submit their CTF Scavenger Hunt and Debrief Reflection Document. Consider making this a completion
grade to encourage open exploration and honest reflection for this initial exposure to CTFs.
Perform (1 day)
Performance Task:
For the performance task for this unit, have students compile their unit tasks into a unit portfolio. This can be collected in a Google Folder or a physical
one, depending on teacher preference. This should give them practice on compiling a portfolio, which they will do in this course. Have students include
the following items from the unit:
● What is Cybersecurity Reflection
● Career Flyer
● Build Your Cybersecurity Character
● Cyber Threat Report
● CTF Scavenger Hunt and Debrief Reflection
● Assessment Reflection Questions (below)
●	
Teachers: Use this rubric to guide feedback and grading.
Assessment Reflection Questions:
● This unit followed a "Play, Learn, Perform" model. How did starting with a "Play" challenge (before you knew the definitions) change the way you
approached the "Learn" lessons?
● Why do you think "Ethics" is listed as a skill that needs practice, rather than just a rule you follow?
● Describe a moment where you felt frustrated or stuck in this unit. Which mindset or skill did you use to get unstuck?

-- 13 of 15 --

Extend and Portfolio
EXTEND
THEN vs. NOW INFOGRAPHIC: To extend their learning, students can create a “Then vs. Now” Infographic on a historical attack of their
choice. Use these directions:
● Step 1: Choose Your "Vintage" Virus
○ Pick one from the classroom timeline
● Step 2: Choose Your "Modern" Rival
○ Find a modern attack (2020–Present) that uses similar methods but for different reasons:
● Step 3: Create the Infographic (Template)
○ Students can use Canva or a physical poster. They must compare the two attacks across these four categories:
■ Motive
■ Vector
■ Scope
■ Defense
PORTFOLIO
Throughout all Paradigm courses, students will have an opportunity to start assembling information to create a professional portfolio. We suggest
having the students create a Google folder with their last name & Cyber Portfolio (example: Smith Cyber Portfolio). In this folder, place three other
folders: Introduction, Cybersecurity, and Capstone. One of the options to create this cyber portfolio is to use Google Sites. Keeping this information in
the Google folder will make it easy at the end of the course to start developing their Google Site (portfolio). Students will then be able to add
even further documentation as they proceed through the other courses (if applicable).
Below is an example of some of the information that will be kept in their cyber portfolio with an emphasis on passion, curiosity and
performance.
Sample Paradigm Cyber Portfolio
CATEGORY 	EVIDENCE, ARTIFACTS OR INFORMATION
PASSION
Strengths, Careers of Interest
● Example: Interested in a career in Forensics or Red Teaming
● Example: Strengths: Cryptology and OSINT
CURIOSITY
Areas of interest, evidence of pursuing
curiosities and experiences that highlight
pursuing interests
● Example: Extension project on Bitcoin theft
● Example: Attended a college weekend cyber workshop on malware
● Example: Social engineering project

-- 14 of 15 --

PERFORMANCE
Competitions
Competitions 	Certifications, Badges, Credentials 	Projects
● Example: NCL Scouting Report
● Example: Paradigm CTF
● Example: CyberStart
Example: Paradigm / Trusted Sec Cyber
Essentials Certification ● Unit 3 Performance task

-- 15 of 15 --

