Effective
Fall 2026
INCLUDES
Course framework
Sample exam
questions
Scoring guidelines
AP
®
Cybersecurity
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION

-- 1 of 192 --

i
AP COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTIONS ARE UPDATED PERIODICALLY
Please visit AP Central to determine whether a more recent course and
exam description is available.
Effective
Fall 2026
AP
®
Cybersecurity
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION

-- 2 of 192 --

ii
What AP
®
Stands For
Thousands of Advanced Placement teachers have contributed to the principles
articulated here. These principles are not new; they are, rather, a reminder of how AP
already works in classrooms nationwide. The following principles are designed to
ensure that teachers’ expertise is respected, required course content is understood,
and that students are academically challenged and free to make up their own minds.
1. AP stands for clarity and transparency. Teachers and students deserve clear
expectations. The Advanced Placement Program makes public its course
frameworks and sample assessments. Confusion about what is permitted in the
classroom disrupts teachers and students as they navigate demanding work.
2. AP is an unflinching encounter with evidence. AP courses enable students to
develop as independent thinkers and to draw their own conclusions. Evidence
and the scientific method are the starting place for conversations in AP courses.
3. AP opposes censorship. AP is animated by a deep respect for the intellectual
freedom of teachers and students alike. If a school bans required topics from
their AP courses, the AP Program removes the AP designation from that course
and its inclusion in the AP Course Ledger provided to colleges and universities.
For example, the concepts of evolution are at the heart of college biology, and a
course that neglects such concepts does not pass muster as AP Biology.
4. AP opposes indoctrination. AP students are expected to analyze different
perspectives from their own, and no points on the AP Exam are awarded for
agreement with any specific viewpoint. AP students are not required to feel
certain ways about themselves or the course content. AP courses instead
develop students’ abilities to assess the credibility of sources, draw conclusions,
and make up their own minds.
As the AP English Literature course description states: “AP students are not
expected or asked to subscribe to any one specific set of cultural or political
values, but are expected to have the maturity to analyze perspectives different
from their own and to question the meaning, purpose, or effect of such content
within the literary work as a whole.”
5. AP courses foster an open-minded approach to the histories and cultures
of different peoples. The study of different nationalities, cultures, religions,
races, and ethnicities is essential within a variety of academic disciplines. AP
courses ground such studies in primary sources so that students can evaluate
experiences and evidence for themselves.
6. Every AP student who engages with evidence is listened to and respected.
Students are encouraged to evaluate arguments but not one another. AP
classrooms respect diversity in backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. The
perspectives and contributions of the full range of AP students are sought and
considered. Respectful debate of ideas is cultivated and protected; personal
attacks have no place in AP.
7. AP is a choice for parents and students. Parents and students freely choose to enroll
in AP courses. Course descriptions are available online for parents and students to
inform their choice. Parents do not define which college-level topics are suitable within
AP courses; AP course and exam materials are crafted by committees of professors
and other expert educators in each field. AP courses and exams are then further
validated by the American Council on Education and studies that confirm the use of
AP scores for college credits by thousands of colleges and universities nationwide.
The AP Program encourages educators to review these principles with parents
and students so they know what to expect in an AP course. Advanced Placement is
always a choice, and it should be an informed one. AP teachers should be given the
confidence and clarity that once parents have enrolled their child in an AP course,
they have agreed to a classroom experience that embodies these principles.
© 2026 The Advanced Placement Program, AP, AP Central, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks
of the College Board. All other products and services may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.

-- 3 of 192 --

Contents
iv 	Acknowledgments
1 	About AP
5 	About AP Career Kickstart
7 	AP Resources and Supports
9 	Instructional Model
10 	About the AP Cybersecurity Course
COURSE FRAMEWORK
14 	Introduction
15 	Course Framework Components
16 	Cybersecurity Skills
17 	Course Content
18 	Course at a Glance
21 	Unit Guides
22 	Using the Unit Guides
25 	UNIT 1: Introduction to Security
43 	UNIT 2: Securing Spaces
63 	UNIT 3: Securing Networks
89 	UNIT 4: Securing Devices
115 	UNIT 5: Securing Applications and Data
EXAM INFORMATION
146 	Exam Overview
147 	How Student Learning is Assessed on the AP Exam
147 	SECTION I: Multiple-Choice
147 	SECTION II: Free-Response
148 	Task Verbs Used in Free-Response Questions
149 	Sample Exam Question
149 	SECTION I: Multiple-Choice
158 	SECTION II: Free-Response
ANSWER KEY AND QUESTION ALIGNMENT TO COURSE
FRAMEWORK
SCORING GUIDELINES
169 	Device Security Analysis
iii

-- 4 of 192 --

iv
Acknowledgments
The Advanced Placement Program would like to acknowledge the following
committee members, consultants, and reviewers for their assistance with
and commitment to the development of this course. All individuals and their
affiliations were current at the time of contribution.
Development Committee
Bobbie Bastian, FutureForward at Bollman, Thornton, CO
Dane Brown, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD
Joshua Brunty, Marshall University, Huntington, WV
Victoria Ferrell, Forsyth Technical Community College, Winston-Salem, NC
Donavon Lockett, Canyon Springs High School, Clark County School District,
North Las Vegas, NV
Connar McCasland, University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL
Jessica Tickle, Shawnee Mission School District Center for Academic
Achievement, Shawnee Mission, KS
Higher Education Advisory Committee
Dane Brown, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD
Jun Dai, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, MA
Melissa Dark, DARK Enterprises, Inc., Lafayette, IN
Chance Folmar, Front Range Community College, Westminster, CO
Tommy Gober, Emporia State University, Emporia, KS
Angel Hueca, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA
Terri Johnson Akse, University of Colorado–Colorado Springs, Colorado
Springs, CO
Kyle Jones, Sinclair Community College, Dayton, OH
Bekah Michael, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH
Michael Qaissaunee, Brookdale Community College, Lincroft, NJ
Diego Tibaquirá, Miami Dade College, Miami, FL
Anthony Tsetse, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights, KY
Industry Advisory Committee
Charles Banks, VP & Manager of Information Security Services, U.S. Bank,
Cincinnati, OH
Charles Gardner, EnterpriseKC, Leawood, KS
Carol Kim, Director of Technology, Data & AI, IBM, Armonk, NY
Dr. Cynthia Sutherland, CISSP Chief Information Security Officer
(Former) Joint Chiefs of Staff
AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents

-- 5 of 192 --

High School Advisory Committee
Beth Cerrone, Innovation Center, St. Vrain Valley School District, Longmont, CO
Naomi Chamblee, Shelby County Area Technology Center, Shelbyville, KY
Jeremiah Milonas, Red Bank Regional School District, Little Silver, NJ
Kristi Rice, Spotsylvania High School, Spotsylvania, VA
Jennifer Schmerber, Taft High School, San Antonio, TX
Expert Consultants
Devin Canaday, The STEMpreneur, LLC, Chester, VA
Angel Piñeiro, Jr., ATCA Services, New York, NY
Thomas Walcott, Gambrills, MD
John R. Williamson, Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, KY
College Board Staff
Joe MacAdam, Director, AP Cybersecurity Curriculum & Assessment
Valerie Evans, Director, AP Cybersecurity Curriculum & Assessment
Simon Glick, Director, Content Development & Editorial, Career Kickstart
Alesha Fox, Executive Director, AP Instructional Services
Ellen Gluck, Senior Director, Career Kickstart Product Readiness
Chad Hoge, Senior Director, Course Product Manager
Daniel McDonough, Senior Director, AP Content & Assessment Publications
Shawn Harris, Director, AP Career Kickstart Professional Learning
Jason VanBilliard, Executive Director, Assessment Innovation & Department
Head, AP Math, Computer Science, and Cyber Curriculum & Assessment
Allison Thurber, Vice President, AP Curriculum & Assessment
Andy Tucker, Senior Director, AP Access
Abby Whitbeck, Vice President, AP Program Strategy
AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	v
Ben Dougherty, Senior Director, Manager, AP Computer Science and
Cyber Curriculum & Assessment

-- 6 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 7 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	1
About AP
The Advanced Placement® Program (AP®
) enables willing and academically
prepared students to pursue college-level studies—with the opportunity to earn
college credit, advanced placement, or both—while still in high school. Through
AP courses in more than 40 subjects, each culminating in a challenging exam,
students learn to think critically, construct solid arguments, and see many sides
of an issue—skills that prepare them for college and beyond. Taking AP courses
demonstrates to college admission officers that students have sought the most
challenging curriculum available to them, and research indicates that students
who score a 3 or higher on an AP Exam typically experience greater academic
success in college and are more likely to earn a college degree than non-AP
students. Each AP teacher’s syllabus is evaluated and approved by faculty
from some of the nation’s leading colleges and universities, and AP Exams are
developed and scored by college faculty and experienced AP teachers. Most
four-year colleges and universities in the United States grant credit, advanced
placement, or both on the basis of successful AP Exam scores—more than 3,300
institutions worldwide annually receive AP scores.
AP Course Development
In an ongoing effort to maintain alignment with best practices in college-level
learning, AP courses and exams emphasize challenging, research-based
curricula aligned with higher education expectations.
Individual teachers are responsible for designing their own curriculum for
AP courses, selecting appropriate college-level readings, assignments, and
resources. This course and exam description presents the content and skills that
are the focus of the corresponding college course and that appear on the AP
Exam. It also organizes the content and skills into a series of units that represent
a sequence found in widely adopted college textbooks and that many AP
teachers have told us they follow in order to focus their instruction. The intention
of this publication is to respect teachers’ time and expertise by providing a
roadmap that they can modify and adapt to their local priorities and preferences.
Enrolling Students: Access, Opportunity, and
Readiness
The AP Program welcomes all students willing to challenge themselves with
college-level coursework and career preparation. We strongly encourage
educators to invite students into AP classes, including students from ethnic,
racial, socioeconomic, geographic, or other groups not broadly participating in
a school’s AP program. We believe that readiness for AP is attainable, and that
educators can expand readiness by opening access to Pre-AP course work.
We commit to support educators and communities in their efforts to make
AP courses widely available, advancing students in their plans for college and
careers.
Offering AP Courses: The AP Course Audit
The AP Program unequivocally supports the principle that each school
implements its own curriculum that will enable students to develop the content
understandings and skills described in the course framework.

-- 8 of 192 --

2 	AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents
While the unit sequence represented in this publication is optional, the AP
Program does have a short list of curricular and resource requirements that must
be fulfilled before a school can label a course “Advanced Placement” or “AP.”
Schools wishing to offer AP courses must participate in the AP Course Audit, a
process through which AP teachers’ course materials are reviewed by college
faculty. The AP Course Audit was created to provide teachers and administrators
with clear guidelines on curricular and resource requirements for AP courses
and to help colleges and universities validate courses marked “AP” on students’
transcripts. This process ensures that AP teachers’ courses meet or exceed the
curricular and resource expectations that college and secondary school faculty
have established for college-level courses.
The AP Course Audit form is submitted by the AP teacher and the school
principal (or designated administrator) to confirm awareness and understanding
of the curricular and resource requirements. A syllabus or course outline,
detailing how course requirements are met, is submitted by the AP teacher for
review by college faculty.
Please visit the AP Course Audit website for more information to support the
preparation and submission of materials for the AP Course Audit.
How the AP Program Is Developed
The scope of content for an AP course and exam is derived from an analysis of
hundreds of syllabi and course offerings of colleges and universities. Using this
research and data, a committee of college faculty and expert AP teachers work
within the scope of the corresponding college course to articulate what students
should know and be able to do upon the completion of the AP course. The
resulting course framework is the heart of this course and exam description and
serves as a blueprint of the content and skills that can appear on an AP Exam.
The AP Test Development Committees are responsible for developing each AP
Exam, ensuring the exam questions are aligned to the course framework. The
AP Exam development process is a multiyear endeavor; all AP Exams undergo
extensive review, revision, piloting, and analysis to ensure that questions are
accurate, fair, and valid, and that there is an appropriate spread of difficulty
across the questions.
Committee members are selected to represent a variety of perspectives and
institutions (public and private, small and large schools and colleges), and a
range of gender, racial/ethnic, and regional groups. A list of contributors for each
subject is available on AP Central®.
Throughout AP course and exam development, College Board gathers feedback
from various stakeholders in both secondary schools and higher education
institutions. This feedback is carefully considered to ensure that AP courses and
exams are able to provide students with a college-level learning experience and
the opportunity to demonstrate their qualifications for advanced placement and/
or college credit.
How AP Exams Are Scored
The exam scoring process, like the course and exam development process,
relies on the expertise of both AP teachers and college faculty. While multiple-
choice questions are scored by machine, the free-response questions and
through-course performance assessments, as applicable, are scored by
thousands of college faculty and expert AP teachers. Most are scored at the
annual AP Reading, while a small portion is scored online. All AP Readers are
thoroughly trained, and their work is monitored throughout the Reading for
fairness and consistency. In each subject, a highly respected college faculty

-- 9 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	3
member serves as Chief Faculty Consultant and, with the help of AP Readers in
leadership positions, maintains the accuracy of the scoring standards. Scores on
the free-response questions and performance assessments are weighted and
combined with the results of the computer-scored multiple-choice questions,
and this raw score is converted into a composite AP score on a 1–5 scale.
AP Exams are not norm referenced or graded on a curve. Instead, they are
criterion-referenced, which means that every student who meets the criteria for
an AP score of 2, 3, 4, or 5 will receive that score, no matter how many students
that is. The criteria for the number of points a student must earn on the AP Exam
to receive scores of 3, 4, or 5—the scores that research consistently validates
for credit and placement purposes—include:
§ The number of points successful college students earn when their
professors administer AP Exam questions to them.
§ Performance that researchers have found to be predictive of an AP student
succeeding when placed into a subsequent higher-level college course.
§ The number of points college faculty indicate, after reviewing each AP
question, that they expect is necessary to achieve each AP grade level.
Using and Interpreting AP Scores
The extensive work done by college faculty and AP teachers in the development
of the course and exam and throughout the scoring process ensures that AP
Exam scores accurately represent students’ achievement in the equivalent
college course. Frequent and regular research studies establish the validity of AP
scores as follows:
AP Score 	Credit Recommendation 	College Grade Equivalent
5 	Extremely well qualified 	A
4 	Well qualified 	A-, B+, B
3 	Qualified 	B-, C+, C
2 	Possibly qualified 	n/a
1 	No recommendation 	n/a
While colleges and universities are responsible for setting their own credit and
placement policies, most private colleges and universities award credit and/or
advanced placement for AP scores of 3 or higher. Additionally, most states in the
U.S. have adopted statewide credit policies that ensure college credit for scores
of 3 or higher at public colleges and universities. To confirm a specific college’s
AP credit/ placement policy, use the search engine available on the AP Credit
Policy Search page.
BECOMING AN AP READER
Each June, thousands of AP teachers and college faculty members from around
the world gather for seven days in multiple locations to evaluate and score the
free-response sections of the AP Exams. Ninety-eight percent of surveyed
educators who took part in the AP Reading say it was a positive experience.
There are many reasons to consider becoming an AP Reader, including
opportunities to:
§ Bring positive changes to the classroom: Surveys show that the vast
majority of returning AP Readers—both high school and college educators—

-- 10 of 192 --

4 	AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents
make improvements to the way they teach or score because of their
experience at the AP Reading.
§ Gain in-depth understanding of AP Exam and AP scoring standards:
AP Readers gain exposure to the quality and depth of the responses from
the entire pool of AP Exam takers and thus are better able to assess their
students’ work in the classroom.
§ Receive compensation: AP Readers are compensated for their work during
the Reading. Expenses, lodging, and meals are covered for Readers who
travel.
§ Score from home: AP Readers have online distributed scoring opportunities
for certain subjects. Check the AP Reader site for details.
§ Earn Continuing Education Units (CEUs): AP Readers earn professional
development hours and CEUs that can be applied to PD requirements by
states, districts, and schools.
HOW TO APPLY
Visit the Become an AP Reader site for eligibility requirements and to start the
application process.

-- 11 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	5
About AP Career
Kickstart
AP Career Kickstart courses provide high schools a new set of AP offerings that
prepare students for high-skill, high-growth careers through:
§ Instruction in both technical and professional skills
§ Emphasis on hands-on learning grounded in authentic scenarios
§ Alignment to career and technical education (CTE) and industry standards
§ Opportunity to earn an employer-endorsed credential upon achieving a
qualifying exam score
Students often recognize the benefits of career exploration while they are still in
high school, but many lack access to quality career-focused programs that lead
to in-demand jobs. With a proven record of delivering high-quality educational
opportunities at scale, the Advanced Placement Program is building AP Career
Kickstart courses to ensure nationwide access to outstanding career education
that today is only available in some communities.
How AP Career Kickstart Courses Are Developed
Every AP course is designed—and regularly updated—to include current data,
evidence, and findings in each discipline. AP courses include the content and
skills most frequently taught in introductory college courses, so that students
who earn qualifying scores on AP Exams can be placed into upper-division
college courses with a strong foundation for success.
AP Career Kickstart courses are built in partnership with industry advisors,
higher education faculty, high school educators, and career and technical
education (CTE) leaders. These advisors are engaged to evaluate research;
recommend course skills, scope, and sequence; and review the course
framework and the AP Exam.
Credit and Placement
The AP Program engages faculty from colleges and universities to ensure that
AP Career Kickstart courses reflect the academic rigor of introductory college
courses in the discipline. Students with qualifying AP Exam scores can earn
credit or placement in required or elective courses at colleges and universities.
Credentials and Industry Recognition
The AP Program partners with industry leaders to ensure the course skills align
with employer demand for core requirements in high-growth, high-demand jobs.
Along with the potential to earn college credit, students with qualifying scores
on the AP Exam will earn the AP Career Kickstart Employer-Endorsed Credential.
Created in partnership with industry experts, AP Career Kickstart Credentials
accelerate students’ progress toward in-demand careers and align with the
needs of employers, college-level coursework, and secondary CTE programs.

-- 12 of 192 --

6 	AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents
Students can leverage AP Career Kickstart Credentials in their efforts to further
their postgraduation plans.
§ For students who are considering moving directly to employment after
graduation, AP Career Kickstart Credentials can support their applications to
internships, apprenticeships, and part- and full-time employment.
§ For students who plan to go on to higher education after graduation, two-
year and four-year colleges use AP Exam scores to award credit and facilitate
placement into associated programs of study.
§ Students can list their AP Career Kickstart Credentials on résumés and post
them to career-oriented social media platforms.
§ After earning AP Career Kickstart Credentials, students are well positioned
to earn “stackable” postsecondary and employer-endorsed credentials
throughout their education and professional development.

-- 13 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	7
AP Resources
and Supports
By completing a simple activation process at the start of the school year,
teachers and students receive access to a robust set of classroom resources.
AP Classroom
AP Classroom is a dedicated online platform designed to support teachers and
students throughout their AP experience. The platform provides a variety of
powerful resources and tools to provide yearlong support to teachers, offering
opportunities to give and get meaningful feedback on student progress.
UNIT GUIDES
Appearing in this publication and on AP Classroom, these planning guides
outline all required course content and skills, organized into commonly taught
units. Each unit guide suggests a sequence and pacing of content, scaffolds
skill instruction across units, organizes content into topics, and provides tips on
taking the AP Exam.
LESSON PLANS
Lesson Plans provided by the AP Program are designed to facilitate strong,
relevant classroom learning experiences. They give teachers concrete,
hands-on lessons that connect learning to authentic, professionally relevant
experiences and help students build practical skills while engaging with course
content. They serve as professional learning tools to support educator growth
and as classroom-ready exemplars that demonstrate relevant, engaging, and
standards-aligned instruction.
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND COLLABORATION RUBRICS
Professional skills are best developed through meaningful, collaborative work
in which students take ownership, solve authentic problems, and practice
communication, teamwork, and critical thinking. These skills prepare students
to work effectively with others and adapt to real workplace challenges. The
Collaboration Rubric and Professional Skills Framework support teachers in
this work by providing clear, practical instruction and tools to observe, nurture,
and guide students’ growth toward authentic, workplace-ready collaboration and
professional behavior.
PRACTICE TESTS
Full-length practice tests are available on AP Classroom. Full-length practice
tests are timed like real tests, except you can move forward from one section
to the next before time expires. Students who test with accommodations can
select their accommodation when setting up the practice test to see how it will
work on test day. Full-length practice tests are scored. After students complete
a practice test in Bluebook, their scores will be available on the My Practice
section of AP Classroom.
REPORTS
Reports provides teachers with a one-stop shop for student results on practice
tests. Teachers can view class trends and see where students struggle with
content and skills that will be assessed on the AP Exam. Students can view their
own progress over time to improve their performance before the AP Exam.

-- 14 of 192 --

8 	AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents
CLASS SECTION SETUP AND ENROLLMENT
§ Teachers and students sign into or create their College Board accounts.
§ Teachers confirm that they have added the course they teach to their
AP Course Audit account and have had it approved by their school’s
administrator.
§ Teachers or AP coordinators, depending on who the school has decided is
responsible, set up class sections so students can access AP resources and
have exams ordered on their behalf.
§ Students join class sections with a join code provided by their teacher or AP
coordinator.
§ Students will be asked for additional information upon joining their first class
section.

-- 15 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	9
Instructional Model
Integrating AP resources throughout the course can help students develop skills
and conceptual understandings. The instructional model outlined below shows
possible ways to incorporate AP resources into the classroom.
Plan
Teachers may consider the following approaches as they plan their instruction
before teaching each unit.
§ Review the overview at the start of each unit guide to identify skills and
conceptual understanding for each unit.
§ Use the Unit at a Glance table to identify related topics that build toward a
common understanding and then plan appropriate pacing for students.
Teach
When teaching, supporting resources could be used to build students’
conceptual understanding and mastery of skills.
§ Use the topic pages in the unit guides to identify the required content.
§ Integrate the content with a skill, considering any appropriate scaffolding.
§ Use the available resources, including unit scenarios, to bring a variety of
authentic experiences into the classroom.
Assess
Teachers can measure student understanding of the content and skills explored
in the unit and provide actionable feedback to students.
§ Within each lesson, offer brief, formative assessments to check student
understand and inform your next instructional move.
§ After teaching each topic, offer a formative assessment to check student
understanding and provide just-in-time feedback.
§ At the end of each unit, create additional practice opportunities that will
provide feedback to students on areas where they need to focus.

-- 16 of 192 --

10
About the AP
Cybersecurity Course
AP Cybersecurity trains students in the field and aligns closely with standard
first-year collegiate cybersecurity courses. Students explore defense-in-depth
strategies and learn to address specific vulnerabilities, attacks, mitigations, and
detection measures across a variety of domains, including physical spaces,
computer networks, devices, applications, and data. Developed in partnership
with college faculty and industry leaders, this yearlong course aligns with the
NICE Workforce Framework.
AP Career Kickstart, a Group of AP Courses
The “Career Kickstart” designation is awarded to AP courses developed not
just with colleges to qualify high school students for college credit but also with
industry leaders and employers to equip students with the skills needed for
specific careers.
College Course Equivalent
The AP Cybersecurity course is designed to be the equivalent of a one-semester
college introduction to cybersecurity course.
Prerequisites
There are no specific course prerequisites for AP Cybersecurity. Students
should be motivated and willing to work both individually and in teams on
college-level projects. AP Cybersecurity is designed to serve as a foundational
course that aligns with multiple Programs of Study within Career and Technical
Education (CTE) Digital Technology Pathways.
Legal and Professional Norms for the Practice of
Cybersecurity
By its nature, cybersecurity relates to the storage, processing, and transmission
of sensitive data (e.g., proprietary corporate data, financial data, health care data,
educational data). To fulfill their responsibilities, cybersecurity professionals
frequently have elevated permissions on devices and access to sensitive data.
For this reason, there are norms for the practice of cybersecurity that guide
cyber professionals in using their permission, access, and tools to secure and
protect systems, data, organizations, and individuals.
Instructors should share and review with students examples of norms from
professional cybersecurity organizations (e.g., ISC2) and governmental
organizations (e.g., the UK Cyber Security Council) so students understand why
these norms exist as well as the importance of following them.
In addition to professional norms, many types of data and sectors of industry are
regulated by laws. Specific legal requirements vary by country, but the United
States, United Kingdom, and European Union have laws relating to collecting,
storing, processing, and transmitting data:
§ Personally identifiable information (PII) (including biometric data like voice
recordings, fingerprints, and face scans)
AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents

-- 17 of 192 --

§ Protected health information (PHI)
§ Student education records
§ Financial records and transactions
The security of some types of data is mandated by industry regulation. For
example, the security of credit card payment data is regulated by the Payment
Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).
Instructors are expected to introduce students to these laws, industry-specific
regulations, and professional norms throughout the duration of the course,
integrating them into appropriate topics.
AP Cybersecurity · 	return to contents 	11

-- 18 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 19 of 192 --

Course
Framework
AP CYBERSECURITY

-- 20 of 192 --

14
Introduction
AP Cybersecurity is a broad introduction to the field of cybersecurity that
aligns closely with a standard first-year college introductory cybersecurity
course. Students learn about common threats and vulnerabilities and how
those combine to create risk. Students study the ways that individuals and
organizations manage risk and how risk can be mitigated through a defense-in-
depth strategy. Students explore specific vulnerabilities, attacks, mitigations,
and detection measures across a variety of domains, including physical spaces,
computer networks, devices, and data and applications. Throughout the course,
students consider the impact of cybersecurity on individuals, organizations,
societies, and governments.
Unit scenarios for each unit in the cybersecurity framework offer authentic
cybersecurity situations and are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain in each unit to relevant, real-world applications. The scenarios in
Unit 1 are relevant to personal security in everyday life, while the scenarios in
Units 2–5 are derived from common tasks employees perform in cybersecurity
jobs. Each scenario is paired with relevant student activities. The scenarios were
developed in partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways
that they approach teaching some of the topics in each unit. These scenarios are
offered to support hands-on, career-connected instruction. Teachers may use
their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu of, those provided here.
Each unit includes between one and five scenarios that highlight professional
career situations that require the use of the skills and course content within that
unit. Each scenario is aligned with the topics and learning objectives for that unit.
For units with multiple scenarios, each one can be used independently, providing
teachers with multiple instructional options: using one or more scenarios with all
students or dividing the scenarios across different students within the class.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 21 of 192 --

(1) COURSE SKILLS
Cybersecurity skills, including collaboration, are critical to the deep
understanding and application of cybersecurity knowledge and practice.
Students should develop and use these skills throughout the course.
(2) COURSE CONTENT
The course content is organized into units that reflect key domains
of cybersecurity knowledge and practice. These units comprise the
content and skills colleges and universities typically expect students to
be proficient in to qualify for college credit and/or placement. Units 1–5
introduce students to security and present knowledge and skills needed to
secure spaces, secure networks, secure devices, and secure applications
and data.
Course Framework
Components
Overview
This course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course
requirements necessary for student success. The framework specifies what
students must know, be able to do, and understand to qualify for college credit
and/or placement.
The course framework includes two essential components:
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	15

-- 22 of 192 --

Cybersecurity Skills
Skill
Category 1
Skill
Category 2
Skill
Category 3
Skill
Category 4
Analyze Risk
Evaluate risk to
organizational
assets.
Mitigate Risk
Implement protective
and deterrent
security controls.
Detect Attacks
Implement detection
methods, monitor
systems, and analyze
evidence.
Collaborate
Work with others and
AI to accomplish a
task.
Communicating
concepts
Explain key
cybersecurity
concepts.
Investigating
problems Explore
the parameters of
a problem to plan
for solutions.
Assessing impacts
Evaluate impacts
on systems.
Enacting solutions
Apply and
communicate
solutions.
1.A Identify, with and
without the support
of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack
methods, and explain
how they generate risk.
1.B Determine ways
adversaries exploit
vulnerabilities to
compromise an
asset.
1.C
wit
Evaluate, with and
hout the support of
AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
1.D Document, with
and without the support
of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
2.A Identify security
controls, and explain
how they mitigate risks.
2.B Determine layered
security controls that
address vulnerabilities.
2.C Evaluate, with
and without the
support of AI, the
impact of protective
risk-management
strategies.
2.D Implement and log
mitigations with and
without the support
of AI.
3.A Identify methods
for monitoring systems,
and explain how they
detect attacks.
3.B Determine
strategies and methods
to detect attacks.
3.C Evaluate the
impact of threat
detection methods.
3.D Detect and
classify cyberattacks
by analyzing digital
evidence with and
without the support
of AI.
4.A Develop clear, shared
team objectives related to
a cybersecurity task.
4.B Determine clear
roles and responsibilities
for members of a team
working to accomplish a
cybersecurity task.
4.C Implement AI as
a collaboration tool
individually and as a
group.
4.D Complete assigned
work to accomplish
a collaborative
cybersecurity task.
16
1 	AP CYBERSECURITY
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 23 of 192 --

2 	AP CYBERSECURITY
Course Content
This course framework provides a clear and detailed description of course
requirements necessary for student success. The framework specifies what
students should know and be able to do, with a focus on understanding,
identifying, protecting against, and remediating common threats and
vulnerabilities through a defense-in-depth strategy across a variety of
domains including physical spaces, computer networks, devices, and data
and applications. The framework emphasizes the impact of cybersecurity on
individuals, organizations, governments, and societies.
Units
There are five units in AP Cybersecurity. Pacing recommendations at the unit
level and on the Course at a Glance table provide suggestions for how to teach
the required course content. The suggested class periods are based on a
schedule in which the class meets five days a week for 45 minutes each day.
While these recommendations have been made to aid in planning, adjust the
pacing based on student needs, alternate schedules (e.g., block scheduling), or
individual schools’ academic calendars.
Topics
Each unit is divided into teachable segments called topics. The topic pages
(starting on page 33) contain all required content for each topic. Topics typically
require 2-8 class periods of instruction. Teachers are not obligated to teach
the topics in the suggested sequence listed in each unit. However, to receive
authorization to label this course “Advanced Placement,” all topics must be
included in the course.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	17

-- 24 of 192 --

18
Course at
a Glance
The Course at a Glance provides
a useful visual organization of the
AP Cybersecurity components,
including:
Plan
§ Sequence of units, along with
suggested pacing. Please
note, pacing is based on
45-minute class periods,
meeting five days each week
for a full academic year.
§ Progression of topics within
each unit.
COURSE SKILLS
Analyze Risk
Mitigate Risk
Detect Attacks
Collaborate
Assess
At the end of each topic and unit,
assess students’ understanding of
the content and skills and provide
them with actionable feedback.
Teach
1
2
3
4
Skill 	Topic
1.1 	Understanding
Social Engineering
1.2 	Suspicious
Website Logins
1.3 	Best Practices for
Public Networks
1.4 	AI-Based
Cybersecurity Attacks
1.5 	Leveraging AI in
Cyber Defense
1
1
2
1
2
1
2
2
3
Skill 	Topic
2.1 	Cyber Foundations
2.2 	Physical Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
2.3 	Protecting Physical
Spaces
2.4 	Detecting Physical
Attacks
1
2
1
2
3
~10
class periods
~21
class periods
Introduction
to Security
UNIT
1
Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 25 of 192 --

Skill 	Topic
3.1 	Network Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
3.2 	Protecting Networks:
Managerial Controls
and Wireless Security
3.3 	Protecting Networks:
Segmentation
3.4 	Protecting Networks:
Firewalls
3.5 	Detecting Network
Attacks
1
2
2
2
3
Skill 	Topic
4.1 	Device Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
4.2 	Authentication
4.3 	Protecting Devices
4.4 	Detecting Attacks on
Devices
1
2
2
3
Skill 	Topic
5.1 	Application and Data
Vulnerabilities and
Attacks
5.2 	Protecting
Applications and Data:
Managerial Controls
and Access Controls
5.3 	Protecting Stored Data
with Cryptography
5.4 	Asymmetric
Cryptography
5.5 	Protecting
Applications
5.6 	Detecting Attacks on
Data and Applications
1
2
2
2
2
3
~26
class periods
~23
class periods
~30
class periods
Securing Networks
UNIT
3
Securing Devices
UNIT
4
Securing
Applications
and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	19

-- 26 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 27 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
Unit
Guides
Introduction
Developed in partnership with industry leaders, college faculty, and experienced
high school educators, these guides offer teachers helpful guidance in building
students’ skills and content knowledge.
This unit structure respects AP teachers’ time by providing one possible
sequence that can be adopted or modified, rather than having to be built from
scratch.

-- 28 of 192 --

UNIT
1
Developing Understanding
In Unit 1, students experience three distinct examples of how adversaries try to
	compromise systems: Students explore how adversaries use social engineering to	
influence the behavior of targets and the impacts of targets clicking on malicious
	links or downloading malicious files. Students see how adversaries compromise
	systems through weak authentication, and they learn how to strengthen
	authentication to protect themselves. Students learn about the hazards of public
	Wi-Fi, including how adversaries use it to attack victims, as well as how to protect
	themselves.
Building Cybersecurity Skills
In this first unit, students begin to explain how vulnerabilities in systems give rise to
	risk and learn to identify potential avenues of attack. Students learn how to identify
	ways they can protect themselves from potential cyberattacks by mitigating risks.
	Students also learn how to detect cyberattacks by analyzing log files and identifying
	signs of suspicious activity—often called indicators of compromise (IoCs).
~10 CLASS PERIODS
Introduction to
Security
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 27
Introduction to Security	
UNIT
1
Unit Scenarios
The scenarios for this unit are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
	students gain to relevant, real-world cybersecurity risks people regularly
	encounter. Each scenario is paired with relevant student activities. Teachers may
	use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu of, those provided here.
SCENARIO 1A:
Detecting Phishing Messages
You are sitting next to your teacher at their desk working on a problem when they
	receive the following email. Your teacher wants to click on the link in the email,
	but you suspect it may not be legitimate.
The email:
To: ljones@school.edu
From: do-not-reply@g00gle.com
Subject: [Urgent!] Access Requested
One of your students has requested access to make a copy of a document.
	Click this link to authorize your student to copy your document.
If you don’t click the link, your student won’t be able to copy the
	document and complete their assignment.
Research shows that the faster teachers respond to students’ document-
	sharing requests, the more likely students are to submit assignments on
	time.
The Google Drive Team
Consider the following questions:
§ What evidence could you use to convince your teacher that this email is not
	legitimate?
§ What elements of the email might cause someone to act impulsively?
§ What are some potential consequences for someone who clicked the link in
	the email?
SCENARIO 1B:
Detecting Unauthorized Logins
You like to play internet-based games at home, but lately you’ve noticed that your
	games are running slower than usual. You check your router’s internet speed, and
	it is not as fast as it usually is. Wondering if another device on your network is
	hogging bandwidth, you check your Wi-Fi router’s authorization log, which shows
	all logged-in devices. Your family’s last name is Rivera and your family names all
	your devices with your last name.
28 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Using the Unit Guides
Unit Openers
Building Cybersecurity
Skills describes specific
subskills within the course
skills that are appropriate
to focus on in that unit.
Unit Scenarios
Developing Understanding
provides an overview that
contextualizes and situates
the key content of the unit
within the scope of the
course.
Unit scenarios are
designed to connect
the knowledge and skills
students gain to relevant,
real-world applications.
They are paired with
applicable student
activities. Teachers may
use their own scenarios in
addition to, or in lieu of, the
scenarios provided.
22 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 29 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
UNIT AT A GLANCE
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
	Class
	Periods
1.1 Understanding
	Social
	Engineering
1.1.A Identify common indicators of social
	engineering tactics.
1.1.B Explain how social engineering
	tactics influence victims to perform
	a desired action.
1.1.C Describe possible impacts for
	victims of social engineering attacks.
1A Detecting Phishing Messages
Read Scenario 1A.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
	the scenario.
2
1.2 Suspicious
	Website Logins
1.2.A Identify common signs of a password
	attack.
1.2.B Explain how adversaries take
	advantage of weak authentication.
1.2.C Explain how to make authentication
	stronger.
1B Detecting Unauthorized Logins
Read Scenario 1B.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
	the scenario.
2
1.3 Best Practices
	for Public
	Networks
1.3.A Identify the type of adversary
	conducting a cyberattack.
1.3.B Identify types of wireless
	cyberattacks.
1.3.C Describe actions individuals can take
	to increase protection of sensitive
	data when using the internet and
	Wi-Fi.
1C Impacts of Using Public Wi-Fi
Read Scenario 1C.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
	the scenario.
2
1.4 AI-Based
	Cybersecurity
	Attacks
1.4.A Explain how adversaries use
	AI-powered tools to augment
	cyberattacks.
1.4.B Explain how to protect against some
	AI-augmented cyberattacks.
1D AI-Powered Cyberattacks
Read Scenario 1D.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
	the scenario.
2
1.5 Leveraging
	AI in Cyber
	Defense
1.5.A Explain how cyber defenders can
	leverage AI-powered tools to protect
	networks, applications, and data.
1.5.B Explain how AI-powered tools are
	enabling faster and more accurate
	threat detection and response.
1E AI-Powered Cyber Defense
Read Scenario 1E.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
	the scenario.
2
AP_Cybersecurity_CED.indd 32	AP_Cybersecurity_CED.indd 32 	19-02-2026 21:17:24	19-02-2026 21:17:24
Introduction to Security UNIT
1
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.1.A	
Identify common indicators of
	social engineering tactics.
TOPIC 1.1
Understanding Social
Engineering
Required Course Content
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
Identify, with and without the
	support of AI, vulnerabilities,
	threats, and attack methods,
	and explain how they generate
	risk.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.1.A.1	
Social engineering attacks employ
	psychological tactics to manipulate users into
	revealing sensitive information (elicitation),	
downloading a malicious file, or clicking on	
a malicious link. Social engineering can be
	performed in person but is often done by
	email, by text message, or through social
	media messages.
1.1.A.2	
Adversaries often use psychological
	tactics like intimidation and urgency to
	achieve their goals. Intimidation is when an
	adversary threatens a target with negative
	consequences if they don’t comply. Urgency
	is when an adversary creates reasons why a
	target should act quickly.
1.1.B
Explain how social engineering	
tactics influence victims to	
perform a desired action.
1.1.B.1	
Social engineering tactics rely on common	
psychological principles that influence human	
behavior.
1.1.B.2	
Intimidation leverages a natural human
	aversion to negative consequences. By
	drawing attention to possible negative
	consequences, adversaries use fear to incite
	targets to act.
1.1.B.3	
Urgency leverages a natural human response
	to react quickly to time-sensitive needs.
	When targets detect a sense of urgency in
	a message, they feel pressured to respond
	or act quickly, which can prevent them from
	taking the time to consider whether an action
	is reasonable or safe.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 33
Unit at a Glance
Topic Pages
Unit at a Glance shows the
topics, learning objectives,
and connections to unit
scenarios for each topic.
Essential knowledge
statements describe
the knowledge required
to perform the learning
objective.
Learning objectives define
what a student should be
able to do with content
knowledge.
Suggested skills offer one
or more recommended
subskills to pair with the
topic.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	23

-- 30 of 192 --

Sample Exam
Questions
The sample exam questions that follow illustrate the relationship between the
	course framework and the AP Cybersecurity Exam and serve as examples of
	the types of questions that appear on the exam. After the sample questions is a
	table that shows which skill, learning objective(s), unit, and essential knowledge
	statement(s) each question assesses. The table also provides the answers to the
	multiple-choice questions.
Section I: Multiple-Choice Questions
The following are examples of the kinds of multiple-choice questions found on the
	exam.
1. A cybersecurity analyst recently completed a review of a hotel’s security.
Consider the following information from their report.
 The hotel’s Wi-Fi extends to the parking area, allowing outsiders
potential access to the network.
 Open network ports in the conference center connect to the hotel’s
internal network and could enable spoofing of a legitimate device.
 Guest feedback tablets in the lobby use a shared Wi-Fi network,
exposing
 nonsensitive customer satisfaction data.
 Model numbers of printers and the firmware versions the printers are
running are visible on the internal network, revealing some information
about devices on the network.
Which of the following risks would the cybersecurity analyst most likely
document as a high risk?
(A) The hotel’s Wi-Fi extending to the parking area
(B) Open network ports in the conference center
(C) Guest feedback tablets using a shared Wi-Fi network
(D) The model numbers of printers and the firmware versions the printers
are running being visible
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 149
158
22. A hospital’s security manager has implemented an automated network
security tool with the following functions.
 The tool analyzes network traffic for signs of malicious activity so the
security team can quickly spot potential threats.
 The tool generates an alert when suspicious or malicious traffic is
detected because the hospital wants to be notified right away if an attack
is attempted.
 The tool does not take direct action to block or stop the traffic itself
because the hospital wants administrators to decide how to respond to
threats.
Which of the following security systems did the security manager
implement?
(A) Data loss prevention system
(B) Network intrusion prevention system
(C) Network intrusion detection system
(D) Security information and event management system
Section II: Free-Response Question
The following is an example of the free-response question found on the exam.
Device Security Analysis
The following sources all come from the same device and are captured in a risk
	assessment for this device.
Source 1
The device’s IP address is 192.168.1.10.
Device Firewall Settings
Rule
	Number Action Source Destination Direction
Port
	Number Protocol
1 Deny 172.45.66.184 192.168.1.10 Inbound 22 	SSH
2 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 21 	FTP
3 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 80 HTTP
4 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 445 SMB
5 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 443 HTTPS
6 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 22 	SSH
7 Allow 172.45.66.184 192.168.1.10 Inbound 3306 MySQL
8 Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 Inbound 3389 RDP
9 Allow 192.168.1.50 192.168.1.10 Inbound 5900 VNC
10 Deny 	ALL 	ALL 	Inbound ALL ALL
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents
24
Exam Overview
Sample multiple-choice
questions serve as
examples of the types of
questions that may appear
on the AP Exam.
A sample free-response
question serves as an
example of the type of
question that may appear
on the AP Exam.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 31 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
UNIT
Introduction
to Security
1
~10
CLASS PERIODS

-- 32 of 192 --



-- 33 of 192 --

UNIT
1
Developing Understanding
In Unit 1, students experience three distinct examples of how adversaries try to
compromise systems: Students explore how adversaries use social engineering to
influence the behavior of targets and the impacts of targets clicking on malicious
links or downloading malicious files. Students see how adversaries compromise
systems through weak authentication, and they learn how to strengthen
authentication to protect themselves. Students learn about the hazards of public
Wi-Fi, including how adversaries use it to attack victims, as well as how to protect
themselves.
Building Cybersecurity Skills
In this first unit, students begin to explain how vulnerabilities in systems give rise to
risk and learn to identify potential avenues of attack. Students learn how to identify
ways they can protect themselves from potential cyberattacks by mitigating risks.
Students also learn how to detect cyberattacks by analyzing log files and identifying
signs of suspicious activity—often called indicators of compromise (IoCs).
~10 	CLASS PERIODS
Introduction to
Security
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	27

-- 34 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
Unit Scenarios
The scenarios for this unit are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain to relevant, real-world cybersecurity risks people regularly
encounter. Each scenario is paired with relevant student activities. Teachers may
use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu of, those provided here.
SCENARIO 1A:
Detecting Phishing Messages
You are sitting next to your teacher at their desk working on a problem when they
receive the following email. Your teacher wants to click on the link in the email,
but you suspect it may not be legitimate.
The email:
To: ljones@school.edu
From: do-not-reply@g00gle.com
Subject: [Urgent!] Access Requested
One of your students has requested access to make a copy of a document.
Click this link to authorize your student to copy your document.
If you don’t click the link, your student won’t be able to copy the
document and complete their assignment.
Research shows that the faster teachers respond to students’ document-
sharing requests, the more likely students are to submit assignments on
time.
The Google Drive Team
Consider the following questions:
§ What evidence could you use to convince your teacher that this email is not
legitimate?
§ What elements of the email might cause someone to act impulsively?
§ What are some potential consequences for someone who clicked the link in
the email?
SCENARIO 1B:
Detecting Unauthorized Logins
You participate in an online game that allows users to create and manage virtual
teams. One day, you discover that some of your previous choices have been
modified without your knowledge. You check the account activity section, which
lists each time the account was accessed. You normally log in to the website on
weekends and evenings, when you’re not in school. A portion of the list of logins
follows.
28 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 35 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
Website Logins
Entry 	Date/Time 	Device IP Address
1 	Saturday April 18 10:43 	208.104.29.211
2 	Sunday April 19 20:51 	208.104.29.211
3 	Tuesday April 21 18:34 	208.104.29.211
4 	Wednesday April 22 11:13 	142.54.195.17
5 	Saturday April 25 13:21 	208.104.29.211
6 	Sunday April 26 21:18 	208.104.29.211
7 	Monday April 27 10:07 	142.54.195.17
8 	Wednesday April 29 19:12 	208.104.29.211
Consider the following questions:
§ What types of information does this log contain?
§ What patterns do you notice in this log?
§ What entries in the log are suspicious and why?
SCENARIO 1C:
Verifying Network Authenticity
You go to your neighborhood coffee shop and try to connect to the shop’s
Wi-Fi network. You are redirected to a captive portal that requires you to
provide some information before allowing you to access the wireless network.
This captive portal has options for you to authenticate yourself by using your
account credentials for popular online platforms. You select one and enter your
login credentials for that platform, and you are granted access to the wireless
network.
You open your streaming music service to play some music, and start studying
for an upcoming test. While you are taking notes from your textbook, you notice
that your music has stopped playing. When you check your streaming music
service, you realize you have been logged out. When you try to log back in, the
service says that your password is invalid.
You notice a sign on the wall that says “Login to our free Wi-Fi network: Sunshine
Coffee Wi-Fi”, but you remember joining a network called “Guest Wi-Fi”. You
accidentally joined a network set up by an adversary to trick customers.
When you logged into the “Guest Wi-Fi” network, you were redirected to a fake
captive portal, set up by an adversary, where you supplied your login credentials
for a popular online platform. By submitting your credentials on the adversary’s
fake portal, they were able to capture your username and password. The
adversary then used those credentials to log in to other services you had linked
to the same platform, including your music service, and change your password.
This locked you out of your account.
Consider the following questions:
§ How could you have avoided joining the malicious network in this scenario?
§ What are the benefits and hazards of using one platform to log in to multiple
online services?
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	29

-- 36 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
SCENARIO 1D:
AI-Powered Cyberattacks
Sitting at home one day, you receive a call from a relative who is frantic, asking
questions quickly: “Are you okay? Did you get the money I sent? How did you end
up in so much trouble?”
First, you calm them down and tell them you’re fine. Then you ask them to
explain what they’re talking about. They say that you called them earlier from
jail, claiming you had been arrested for stealing and needed bail money. They
wired the money just as you instructed. You explain to them that you were never
arrested, you haven’t left home all day, and you never called them. They’ve
been scammed, but they insist that it was you calling them. They say it sounded
exactly like you.
What Really Happened?
You have a social media account where you post short videos of yourself. Two
weeks ago, you got a friend request on that platform. The friend request came
from someone with a name similar to a kid at your school. Figuring it was them,
you accepted the request. That person was actually an adversary pretending
to be someone from your school. The adversary was able to scrape enough
samples of your voice from your social media posts to feed into an AI tool that
clones voices. The adversary used social media to find your relative and called
them using the voice-cloning tool pretending to be you. They created a fake
story about being caught stealing, being in jail, and needing bail money wired to
them.
Consider the following questions:
§ Do you know all your online connections (on social media and gaming
platforms) in real life? Do you know that they are who they claim to be?
§ Have you heard of adversaries trying to impersonate someone to get money
out of a relative?
§ How could you help protect relatives from becoming a victim of a scheme like
this?
SCENARIO 1E:
AI-Powered Cyber Defense
The company you work for is developing a new web application that will allow
customers to place orders in an online system. The application automatically
accesses the company’s warehouse inventory database to display current item
availability to customers. When a customer purchases an item through the web
portal, the application updates the database to remove the item(s) the customer
purchased.
Before launching this new website, you ask an AI-powered tool to review the
code and flag any potential security vulnerabilities. The AI tool flags several
instances where a user input field is being fed directly into database requests
as vulnerabilities. Adversaries could take advantage of those parts of the
application to learn more about what is in the company’s warehouse and possibly
modify the database in unintended ways.
The AI tool recommends several fixes to the code that would validate and
sanitize user input before passing commands to the database. You share these
recommendations with the software development team, who review the code
changes and update the code with appropriate suggestions. The application is
then pushed to a testing environment before being deployed.
30 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 37 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
Consider the following questions:
§ What are some potential advantages and disadvantages of using an AI-
powered tool to review application code?
§ Why is it important for the development team to review the changes to the
application code before implementing them?
§ Are there times when you use AI-powered tools to help you review your
work?
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	31

-- 38 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
UNIT AT A GLANCE
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
Class
Periods
1.1 Understanding
Social
Engineering
1.1.A Identify common indicators of social
engineering tactics.
1.1.B Explain how social engineering
tactics influence victims to perform
a desired action.
1.1.C Describe possible impacts for
victims of social engineering attacks.
1A Detecting Phishing Messages
Read Scenario 1A.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
the scenario.
2
1.2 Suspicious
Website Logins
1.2.A Identify common signs of a password
attack.
1.2.B Explain how adversaries take
advantage of weak authentication.
1.2.C Explain how to make authentication
stronger.
1B Detecting Unauthorized Logins
Read Scenario 1B.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
the scenario.
2
1.3 Best Practices
for Public
Networks
1.3.A Identify the type of adversary
conducting a cyberattack.
1.3.B Identify types of wireless
cyberattacks.
1.3.C Describe actions individuals can take
to increase protection of sensitive
data when using the internet and
Wi-Fi.
1C Impacts of Using Public Wi-Fi
Read Scenario 1C.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
the scenario.
2
1.4 AI-Based
Cybersecurity
Attacks
1.4.A Explain how adversaries use
AI-powered tools to augment
cyberattacks.
1.4.B Explain how to protect against some
AI-augmented cyberattacks.
1D AI-Powered Cyberattacks
Read Scenario 1D.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
the scenario.
2
1.5 Leveraging
AI in Cyber
Defense
1.5.A Explain how cyber defenders can
leverage AI-powered tools to protect
networks, applications, and data.
1.5.B Explain how AI-powered tools are
enabling faster and more accurate
threat detection and response.
1E AI-Powered Cyber Defense
Read Scenario 1E.
Reflect on the questions at the end of
the scenario.
2

-- 39 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.1.A
Identify common indicators of
social engineering tactics.
TOPIC 1.1
Understanding Social
Engineering
Required Course Content
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.1.A.1
Social engineering attacks employ
psychological tactics to manipulate users into
revealing sensitive information (elicitation),
downloading a malicious file, or clicking on
a malicious link. Social engineering can be
performed in person but is often done by
email, by text message, or through social
media messages.
1.1.A.2
Adversaries often use psychological
tactics like intimidation and urgency to
achieve their goals. Intimidation is when an
adversary threatens a target with negative
consequences if they don’t comply. Urgency
is when an adversary creates reasons why a
target should act quickly.
1.1.B
Explain how social engineering
tactics influence victims to
perform a desired action.
1.1.B.1
Social engineering tactics rely on common
psychological principles that influence human
behavior.
1.1.B.2
Intimidation leverages a natural human
aversion to negative consequences. By
drawing attention to possible negative
consequences, adversaries use fear to incite
targets to act.
1.1.B.3
Urgency leverages a natural human response
to react quickly to time-sensitive needs.
When targets detect a sense of urgency in
a message, they feel pressured to respond
or act quickly, which can prevent them from
taking the time to consider whether an action
is reasonable or safe.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework
Identify, with and without the
support of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack methods,
and explain how they generate
risk.
return to contents 	33

-- 40 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
34 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
1.1.C.1
Victims may give an adversary personal
information that could lead to impersonation,
such as name, phone number, address,
workplace, pets’ names, or birthdate. These
types of information, and information like
them, are often used on websites as challenge
questions to verify a user’s identity.
1.1.C.2
Victims may give an adversary secure
information like a one-time password (OTP)
or authentication login code, which could
allow an adversary to log in to a service as the
victim.
1.1.C.3
Victims may download malware or click a
link that that installs malware on their device,
steals information from their web browser, or
directs them to a website where their login
credentials can be captured by an adversary.
1.1.C
Describe possible impacts for
victims of social engineering
attacks.

-- 41 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	35
TOPIC 1.2
Suspicious
Website Logins
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.2.A
Identify common signs of a
password attack.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.2.A.1
In an online password attack, adversaries
try logging in to a device or service using
common passwords, common password
patterns, or stolen passwords.
1.2.A.2
Signs of an online password attack include:
§ Many failed attempts to log in over a short
duration
§ Login attempts at unusual times
§ Login attempts from unknown devices
1.2.B
Explain how adversaries
take advantage of weak
authentication.
1.2.B.1
Many people use common patterns when
creating passwords, such as:
§ Starting a password with one or two words,
adding a two-digit number (often signifying
a year), and putting a special character at
the end
§ Including the names of family or pets in
their passwords
§ Including personally significant dates in
their passwords
1.2.B.2
Adversaries often construct a dictionary
of possible passwords based on personal
information gathered about a target (e.g.,
birthday, anniversary, names of pets and
family) and use an automated tool to submit
potential passwords.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
Identify, with and without the
support of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack methods,
and explain how they generate
risk.
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.

-- 42 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
36 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
1.2.C.1
Users should create passwords that are long,
random, and unique. A password manager
can be used to generate and store strong
passwords, or a user may create long, unique
passphrases for their accounts.
1.2.C.2
When creating passwords, users should avoid
names, dates, or other personally meaningful
words or numbers.
1.2.C.3
When available, users should enable
multifactor authentication (MFA), which
will require the user to provide extra proof
of identity—such as a one-time code—in
addition to the password as an extra layer of
security.
1.2.C
Explain how to make
authentication stronger.

-- 43 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	37
TOPIC 1.3
Best Practices for
Public Networks
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.3.A
Identify the type of adversary
conducting a cyberattack.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.3.A.1
Adversaries can be classified by their skill
levels.
§ Low-skilled adversaries rely on malicious
cyber tools created by others that can
be purchased online. The tools they use
exploit known vulnerabilities.
§ High-skilled adversaries have the
capacity to create new malicious cyber
tools or modify existing ones to adapt
to new defensive techniques and tools.
They also have the capacity to discover
undocumented vulnerabilities, known as
zero days.
1.3.A.2
Adversaries have a variety of motivations,
including greed, desire for recognition,
dedication to a cause, revenge, politics, or
beliefs.
1.3.B
Identify types of wireless
cyberattacks.
1.3.B.1
In an evil twin attack, an adversary sets up
their own wireless access point (WAP) with a
service set identifier (SSID) similar or identical
to a target network; the adversary’s network
is called the evil twin. Victims of this attack
could select to unknowingly connect to the
evil twin, allowing the adversary to capture
their network traffic. The adversary cannot
read traffic that uses an encrypted protocol
like HTTPS.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
Identify, with and without the
support of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack methods,
and explain how they generate
risk.
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.

-- 44 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
38 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
1.3.B
Identify types of wireless
cyberattacks.
1.3.C
Describe actions individuals
can take to increase protection
of sensitive data when using
the internet and Wi-Fi.
1.3.B.2
In a jamming attack, an adversary floods
an area with a strong electromagnetic (EM)
signal in the same frequency range as the
wireless network, which prevents legitimate
traffic between the access point (AP) and
users. This type of attack that prevents users
from accessing resources is called a denial of
service (DoS) attack.
1.3.B.3
In a war driving attack, adversaries try to
detect wireless network beacons while
driving or walking around a target. If a wireless
signal is detected, the adversary can gather
information about the type of wireless network
used and find areas where the wireless signal
extends outside the physical building.
1.3.C.1
1.3.C.2
1.3.C.3
Individuals may consider using a virtual private
network (VPN), which encrypts all their traffic
to the VPN operator’s system. Although
this action prevents a service provider from
viewing traffic, the VPN provider can view the
traffic.
Most internet protocols are encrypted to
protect network traffic. However, individuals
may consider the sensitivity of their data in
choosing whether to join unencrypted Wi-Fi
networks to protect vulnerable data such as
DNS queries.
Individuals should verify that the name of any
wireless network they join exactly matches the
name of the network they intend to join.

-- 45 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	39
TOPIC 1.4
AI-Based
Cybersecurity Attacks
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.4.A
Explain how adversaries use
AI-powered tools to augment
cyberattacks.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.4.A.1
Adversaries can use AI-powered tools that
leverage existing voice and image samples
of a person to create a digital avatar of that
person. The use of these technologies enables
adversaries to impersonate someone over the
phone or even on a video call, which can lead
to financial loss or the sharing of sensitive or
private information. As more organizations
adopt voice-based authentication, the impact
of voice-impersonation has a larger potential
impact.
1.4.A.2
Adversaries can use generative AI tools,
like large language models (LLMs), to create
convincing phishing messages in any target
language. Because traditional phishing
messages are sometimes written by non-
native speakers of the target’s language,
unnatural language is a feature that has been
used to distinguish phishing messages from
legitimate messages. However, with AI tools,
adversaries can now craft phishing messages
in any language that read as though they were
written by a native speaker.
1.4.A.3
Adversaries can craft prompts that extract
secure or sensitive information from LLMs.
Secure or sensitive information in LLMs can
come from user input and the large data sets
used to train LLMs.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
Identify, with and without the
support of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack methods,
and explain how they generate
risk.
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.

-- 46 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
40 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
1.4.A
Explain how adversaries use
AI-powered tools to augment
cyberattacks.
1.4.B
Explain how to protect
against some AI-augmented
cyberattacks.
1.4.A.4
Adversaries can publish websites or modify
existing websites to contain false information
so that the false information will be included in
the training sets for LLMs, causing the LLMs to
repeat the false information.
1.4.A.5
Adversaries can perform reconnaissance on
a target using AI-powered tools that scan the
internet to gather information posted on social
media and public websites.
1.4.A.6
Adversaries can use AI-enhanced coding
tools to help them write new malware, modify
existing application code to perform malicious
activities, or to find vulnerabilities in large code
bases.
1.4.B.1
Shared secrets with close friends and relatives
that can be used to verify each other’s
identities should be established. A secret word
or phrase known only to two parties can be
used to authenticate identities in high-stakes
situations.
1.4.B.2
Multifactor authentication (MFA) should be
enabled. If an adversary clones a target’s voice
to access a system with voice authentication,
requiring a second authentication factor could
prevent an adversary from gaining access to
accounts.
1.4.B.3
Personal or sensitive data should not be
entered into any AI-powered tools, such
as chatbots or virtual assistants. Some AI-
powered tools feed user input back into
the model to provide continuous training.
Adversaries could extract data that users have
included in prompts.
1.4.B.4
Output from AI-powered tools should be
carefully evaluated. Verify information from
AI-powered tools using reputable, stable, non-
AI-based sources.

-- 47 of 192 --

Introduction to Security UNIT
1
TOPIC 1.5
Leveraging AI in
Cyber Defense
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
1.5.A
Explain how cyber defenders
can leverage AI-powered
tools to protect networks,
applications, and data.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
1.5.A.1
AI tools can review current security
configurations, like firewall rules and access
controls, and recommend more secure
options. Recommendations should always
be checked by a knowledgeable security
technician before being implemented.
1.5.A.2
AI-powered tools can analyze application code
to identify vulnerabilities and recommend
mitigations. Recommendations should always
be reviewed by a knowledgeable programmer
before being implemented.
1.5.A.3
AI-powered tools can suggest rules for
automated detection systems. Detection
rules should always be reviewed by a
knowledgeable detection engineer before
being added to a system.
1.5.B.1
Of the millions of digital events that happen
on networks daily, some likely represent an
adversary conducting malicious activity.
Humans cannot carefully examine all those
events to identify the malicious activity.
1.5.B.2
AI-powered tools can be trained to quickly
analyze digital events and sort the events that
are likely malicious activity from those that are
harmless.
1.5.B
Explain how AI-powered tools
are enabling faster and more
accurate threat detection and
response.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
3.A
Identify methods for monitoring
systems, and explain how they
detect attacks.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	41

-- 48 of 192 --

Introduction to Security
UNIT
1
42 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
1.5.B
Explain how AI-powered tools
are enabling faster and more
accurate threat detection and
response.
1.5.B.3
AI-powered tools can be programmed to
alert human cybersecurity personnel when
likely malicious activity is detected or to take
specific corrective actions based on the type
of malicious activity detected.
1.5.B.4
AI-powered tools enable threat-detection
and response teams to catch malicious
activity and intervene quickly to prevent loss,
harm, damage, and destruction to digital
infrastructure and data.

-- 49 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
UNIT
Securing
Spaces
2
~2
CLASS
1
PERIODS

-- 50 of 192 --



-- 51 of 192 --

UNIT
2
Developing Understanding
In this unit, students focus on securing a physical location. Adversaries that can gain
physical access to a device are often able to bypass many of the technical controls
that protect the device and the data on it. Thus, securing the physical space is a
critical first layer of defense and a concrete way for students to develop adversarial
thinking skills and begin to identify vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, and mitigations.
Students consider how physical spaces might be breached by adversaries, how to
detect physical breaches, how to select devices to prevent or deter an adversary,
and how to place those devices to maximize their usefulness.
Building Cybersecurity Skills
This unit focuses on an aspect of security that is concrete and is present in students’
everyday lives. By leveraging the fact that students move through different spaces
(e.g., their home, the school building, a bank) that are secured in a variety of ways,
teachers can connect the concepts of vulnerabilities, threats, and risk to students’
experiences. Students begin assessing and managing risk in this familiar domain
while they practice selecting security controls based on the principles from Unit 1.
Finally, students consider how to select controls to detect physical breaches and
evaluate the impact of those controls.
Securing Spaces
~21 	CLASS PERIODS
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	45

-- 52 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
Unit Scenario
The scenario for this unit is designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain to realistic workplace tasks. The scenario is paired with relevant
student activities. Teachers may use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu
of, the one provided here.
SCENARIO 2A:
Securing Xtensr Labs
You work on the physical security team at Xtensr Research Labs. Xtensr is buying
a smaller research company in the same town to expand their operations. You
have been tasked with conducting a physical vulnerability assessment of the
new lab.
You will:
§ Review the building plans and current security controls for this new lab and
identify physical vulnerabilities
§ Assess the risk from the vulnerabilities identified
§ Recommend physical security controls to mitigate these vulnerabilities
§ Recommend the placement of monitoring equipment to detect physical
security breaches
46 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 53 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
UNIT AT A G 	C	LAN 	E
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	47
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
Class
Periods
2.1 Cyber
Foundations
2.1.A
2.1.B
2.1.C
2.1.D
2.1.E
2.1.F
2.1.G
Identify social engineering attacks.
Identify types of adversaries.
Describe the phases of a
cyberattack.
Describe the risk assessment
process.
Identify strategies for managing risk.
Identify types of security controls.
Explain why a defense-in-depth
security strategy is necessary to
optimally protect an organization.
8
2.2 Physical
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
2.2.A
2.2.B
2.2.C
Identify common physical attacks.
Explain how threats can exploit
common physical vulnerabilities to
cause loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction to assets.
Assess and document risks from
physical vulnerabilities.
2A Securing Xtensr Labs
Review physical plans to identify
physical vulnerabilities.
Assess the risk from the vulnerabilities
identified.
5
2.3 Protecting
Physical
Spaces
2.3.A
2.3.B
Identify managerial controls related
to physical security.
Determine mitigation strategies for
risks from physical vulnerabilities.
2A Securing Xtensr Labs
Recommend physical security controls
to mitigate the risks identified in
Topic 2.2.
4
2.4 Detecting
Physical
Attacks
2.4.A
2.4.B
2.4.C
Identify ways security controls can
detect physical attacks.
Determine effective placement
of security controls for detecting
physical attacks.
Apply detection techniques to
identify physical attacks.
2A Securing Xtensr Labs
Recommend the placement of
monitoring equipment for detecting
physical security breaches.
4

-- 54 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
TOPIC 2.1
Cyber Foundations
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
2.1.A
Identify social engineering
attacks.
2.1.A.1
Social engineers use psychological tactics to
manipulate targets into taking a desired action.
2.1.A.2
Pretexting is when adversaries create a
believable reason to contact a target.
2.1.A.3
Authority is when adversaries impersonate
someone with power over a target or pretend
to relay instructions from that person.
2.1.A.4
Intimidation is when adversaries state negative
consequences if demands aren’t met.
2.1.A.5
Consensus is when adversaries create social
pressure by making a target believe everyone
else is doing a desired action.
2.1.A.6
Scarcity is when adversaries create a sense of
limited availability.
2.1.A.7
Familiarity is when adversaries pretend to be
or know someone close to a target to establish
trust.
2.1.A.8
Urgency is when adversaries create a deadline
that requires quick action by a target to avert
negative consequences.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.A
Identify, with and without the
support of AI, vulnerabilities,
threats, and attack methods,
and explain how they generate
risk.
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
48 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 55 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
2.1.B
Identify types of adversaries.
2.1.C
Describe the phases of a
cyberattack.
2.1.B.1
Script kiddies are low-skilled adversaries
who use tools developed by others without
understanding how the tools work. They
are often motivated by greed or a desire for
recognition.
2.1.B.2
Hacktivists are motivated by social, political,
or personal causes. They compromise
computers and networks to support their
cause or stop perceived harm, believing their
goals justify their illegal methods.
2.1.B.3
Insider adversaries are unique threats because
they have legitimate credentials and access
to systems and data. They can be recruited by
malicious third parties and can be motivated
by greed or revenge.
2.1.B.4
Cyberterrorists are motivated by politics or
beliefs and seek to disrupt entire communities,
regions, or nations through cyberattacks (e.g.,
attacking a power grid, water treatment plant,
or other civil infrastructure). They can act
independently or on behalf of governments or
criminal organizations.
2.1.B.5
Transnational criminal organizations
seek financial gain primarily by deploying
ransomware and stealing corporate intellectual
property (IP) to sell in illegal markets.
2.1.C.1
Cyberattacks aim to disrupt, harm, steal,
or destroy devices, networks, or data.
Adversaries work in phases, which may not all
be used in every attack. The phases are:
i. Reconnaissance
ii. Initial access
iii. Persistence
iv. Lateral movement
v. Taking action
vi. Evading detection
2.1.C.2
In the reconnaissance phase of an attack,
adversaries gather as much information as
possible about their target, often using open
source intelligence (OSINT), which is freely
available information.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	49

-- 56 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.1.C
Describe the phases of a
cyberattack.
2.1.D
Describe the risk assessment
process.
2.1.C.3
In the initial-access phase of an attack,
adversaries establish a foothold on the
target’s computer, often through social
engineering or compromised or weak
credentials.
2.1.C.4
After gaining access during an attack,
adversaries establish persistence to maintain
access without needing to regain it. They may
use a command and control (C2) protocol to
send commands to the device and receive
output, often through malware like a remote
access trojan (RAT) or rootkit.
2.1.C.5
In the lateral-movement phase of an attack,
adversaries try to escalate their privileges by
accessing computers and user accounts with
elevated permissions to services and data.
2.1.C.6
In the taking-action phase of an attack,
adversaries act on their objectives by
collecting targeted data, exfiltrating it, and
disrupting services or destroying data.
2.1.C.7
In the final phase of an attack, many
adversaries try to evade detection by
removing or editing log files and erasing other
files they may have planted on devices (e.g.,
malware).
2.1.D.1
Risk occurs when a threat can exploit a
vulnerability to compromise an asset.
2.1.D.2
An asset is anything valuable. Assets include
financial resources, intellectual property, data,
digital infrastructure, physical property, and
reputation.
2.1.D.3
Risk assessment considers two factors:
§ The likelihood of an attack against a
specific vulnerability
§ The severity of the projected damage from
an attack against a specific vulnerability
50 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 57 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
2.1.D
Describe the risk assessment
process.
2.1.D.4
The likelihood of a vulnerability being exploited
depends on many factors, including:
§ The value of the target: Adversaries are
more likely to attack targets they perceive
as valuable.
§ The level of skill required to exploit
the vulnerability (i.e., the difficulty):
Vulnerabilities with well-documented
exploits often require less skill and can be
carried out by more adversaries.
§ The motivation and capabilities of likely
adversaries: Highly motivated and skilled
adversaries are more likely to be able to
perform more complex exploits.
2.1.D.5
The severity of an attack is often measured
by financial cost, which can also include
reputational and operational impacts.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
A hacktivist is passionate about illegal fishing
practices supported by a local food production
company. The main webpage of this food
production company would be a high-value
target for this hacktivist; defacing the webpage
to expose the company’s support of illegal
fishing would provide no financial gain to
the adversary, but would allow them to raise
awareness about an issue that motivates them.
2.1.D.6
The result of a risk assessment can be
quantitative or qualitative.
§ Quantitative risk assessment assigns a
numeric value to a vulnerability based on
a numeric scale (e.g., 1–10) or quantifiable
impact, which could be financial (e.g., a
$10,000 annual risk).
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
§ Low, medium, high, severe
§ Unlikely low impact, likely low impact, unlikely
high impact, likely high impact
2.1.D.7
Risk assessment documentation should
include:
§ Vulnerable assets and their value
§ Descriptions of likely threats to the assets
§ Details of specific vulnerabilities for
specific assets and how they would be
exploited
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	51

-- 58 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.1.D
Describe the risk assessment
process.
2.1.E
Identify strategies for
managing risk.
§ An explanation of the severity of damage
(financial, operational, reputational, etc.) if a
specific asset were compromised, and the
likelihood of that compromise occurring
§ A final rating, quantitative or qualitative, for
each risk identified
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
§ Scaled score (e.g., 1–10)
§ Monetary value (e.g., a $10,000 risk vs.
a $100,000 risk)
2.1.E.1
Once a risk has been identified and assessed,
an organization has four options for managing
that risk:
i. Avoid
ii. Transfer
iii. Mitigate
iv. Accept
2.1.E.2
Risk avoidance stops the activity that is
generating the risk. If the activity is a critical
part of an organization’s mission or purpose,
then avoidance is not possible.
2.1.E.3
Risk transference places the burden of the
risk on another entity, such as an insurance
company, a government, or consumers.
2.1.E.4
Risk mitigation implements security controls
to reduce the likelihood or impact of a risk.
2.1.E.5
Residual risk is the risk that remains after an
organization has gone through avoidance,
transference, and mitigation. The residual risk
is the level of risk that an organization is willing
to accept. Risk acceptance acknowledges the
fact that absolute security is unattainable.
2.1.E.6
To conserve financial resources and employee
capacity, an organization will often favor
solutions that are cost effective and easy
to implement and maintain. Cost-effective
solutions cost less to install and maintain than
the expected loss from an attack.
52 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 59 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
2.1.F
Identify types of security
controls.
2.1.F.1
Security controls address at least one of the
following principles:
§ Confidentiality ensures that only
authorized individuals, systems, or
processes can access data. Systems
lacking confidentiality are vulnerable to
data theft or destruction.
§ Integrity ensures data are accurate and
trustworthy. Systems lacking integrity are
vulnerable to data manipulation.
§ Availability ensures data and services are
accessible to authorized individuals when
needed. Systems lacking availability may
experience unexpected downtime.
2.1.F.2
Security controls can be classified by type.
§ Physical controls provide security in the
physical space and include locks, fences,
and cameras, bollards, and security
guards.
§ Technical controls provide security in the
digital space and include firewalls, anti-
malware software, and encryption.
§ Managerial controls provide rules,
guidelines, policies, and procedures that
specify what security should be in place
and include password policies, regular
access reviews, and incident response
plans (IRPs).
2.1.F.3
Security controls can be classified by function.
§ Preventative controls address potential
vulnerabilities with the goal of stopping an
adversary from attacking and include locks
and encryption.
§ Detective controls help identify attacks
when they occur and include intrusion
detection systems (IDSs), cameras, and
security incident and event management
(SIEM) systems.
§ Corrective controls fix problems and
help restore systems to an operational
state and include vulnerability patching,
repairing a broken card reader, and
intrusion prevention systems (IPSs).
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	53

-- 60 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.1.G
Explain why a defense-in-
depth security strategy is
necessary to optimally protect
an organization.
2.1.G.1
A defense-in-depth strategy, or layered
defense, uses multiple types of security
controls to protect sensitive data and systems.
2.1.G.2
A defense-in-depth strategy allows an
organization to address different types of
threats, each with a security control most
suited to mitigate it.
2.1.G.3
A defense-in-depth strategy allows for
resilience in data protection so when one
security control is bypassed by an adversary,
another security control may still prevent
access to the data or system or limit the
damage done to the data or system.
2.1.G.4
Layers in a defense-in-depth strategy can
include human, physical, network, device,
application, and data.
54 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 61 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
FIGURE 2.1: Defense in Depth
Defense in depth is a layered security strategy that implements protections
and deterrence at different levels to make it more challenging for adversaries to
compromise a computer, network, or data.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	55

-- 62 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
TOPIC 2.2
Physical
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
1.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
1.D
Document, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
Identify common physical
attacks.
2.2.A
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
2.2.A.1
Adversaries often use social engineering when
conducting a physical attack.
Piggybacking is the name for an attack
where an adversary uses social engineering
to manipulate an authorized individual to
grant the adversary access to a restricted
area. Common piggybacking tactics include
carrying something large to entice an
authorized person to hold the door open,
pretending to be an authorized person
who has forgotten their access token, or
pretending to be a maintenance person who
needs to get into a certain area to perform an
inspection or repair.
2.2.A.3
Tailgating is the name for an attack where an
adversary gains unauthorized access to a
restricted area by following close behind an
authorized individual without that individual’s
awareness or knowledge.
2.2.A.4
Shoulder surfing is the name for an attack
where an adversary watches as a user
accesses sensitive information so the
adversary can use it later. Sometimes
adversaries use a camera to record the target
accessing the sensitive information for later
analysis.
2.2.A.5
Dumpster diving is the name for an attack
where an adversary goes through a target’s
physical trash to look for information that
could be used to help the adversary reach
their goal.
2.2.A.2
56 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 63 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
2.2.A
Identify common physical
attacks.
2.2.B
Explain how threats can
exploit common physical
vulnerabilities to cause
loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction to assets.
2.2.A.6
Card cloning is the name for an attack where
an adversary makes a copy of an authorized
user’s access card so they can gain access
to all the resources the user is authorized to
access.
2.2.B.1
Threats include human adversaries seeking
to cause harm or disruption as well as natural
disasters. Natural disasters can cause physical
damage or destruction to computers and
data as well as disruption of digital services
provided by computers.
2.2.B.2
Vulnerabilities are weaknesses or flaws that
could allow an asset to be compromised.
Common compromises include:
§ Unauthorized access to sensitive data or
restricted physical spaces
§ Disruption of services
§ Theft or destruction of digital or physical
resources
§ Unauthorized modification of data
2.2.B.3
When adversaries disrupt power to a device,
the device and any services it provides
become unavailable. To disrupt power,
adversaries may damage fuses or breakers
in an electrical box, unplug or cut electrical
wiring, or damage power distribution systems
like substations and transformers.
2.2.B.4
When adversaries gain access to an area with
sensitive information, they can steal or copy
sensitive information.
2.2.B.5
When adversaries gain physical access
to a device and its ports, they can plug in
a keylogger or external drive containing
malware, which could allow them to collect
data from a user or possibly even to gain
control of the device. With direct physical
access adversaries can also physically destroy
a device, making the device itself, any data
stored on it, and any services it provides
unavailable.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	57

-- 64 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.2.C
Assess and document risks
from physical vulnerabilities.
2.2.C.1
Physical access to devices can allow
adversaries to bypass many technical controls
and layers of security.
2.2.C.2
High risks from physical vulnerabilities arise
when sensitive information or systems
are exposed in physical spaces without
sufficiently restricted and controlled access.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
A server that stores customer data is in a
room with no lock which is accessed via an
unmonitored hallway.
2.2.C.3
Moderate risks from physical vulnerabilities
arise when a noncritical or nonsensitive part
of an organization is left unprotected in a way
that it could act as a foothold for an adversary
to gain initial access to other resources.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An office has a reception area beyond which
access is controlled; the receptionist has a
computer that connects to the office’s internal
wireless network and the computer has
exposed USB ports.
2.2.C.4
Low risks from physical vulnerabilities arise
when a vulnerable asset is of low value and the
vulnerability is unlikely to be exploited.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
Employees in an office that requires badge
access have laptop computers that they leave
on their desks unattended when they all go to
lunch together. The computers do not contain
any sensitive information, but there are no
cables securing the devices to the desks.
58 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 65 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
TOPIC 2.3
Protecting Physical
Spaces
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
2.B
Determine layered security
controls that address
vulnerabilities.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
2.3.A
Identify managerial controls
related to physical security.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
2.3.A.1
Organizations should conduct employee
security awareness training to educate
employees about how they can contribute to
the organization’s security by:
§ Detecting social engineering attempts like
phishing
§ Not badging other people into restricted
areas
§ Preventing device theft
2.3.A.2
Organizations should have a workstation
security policy that outlines the measures
necessary to protect a physical workplace.
The policy may have tiers of workstation
security based on the type of data handled
at a workstation. Workstation policies often
require:
§ Locking devices before leaving
workstations unattended to prevent
unauthorized access
§ Clearing sensitive documents off
workstations before leaving them
unattended (sometimes called a clean
desk policy)
§ Using a privacy screen filter or other
physical barrier to prevent others from
viewing information on the screen
§ Connecting devices to surge protectors or
uninterruptible power supplies (UPS)
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	59

-- 66 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.3.B
Determine mitigation strategies
for risks from physical
vulnerabilities.
2.3.B.1
To determine a relevant control, a cyber
defender considers how an adversary could
take advantage of a vulnerability to attack a
system and how to prevent, detect, or correct
the attack.
2.3.B.2
Installing physical controls like fencing, gates,
and bollards around a building can deter
adversaries from trying to physically access
an organization’s buildings.
2.3.B.3
Locks on doors, server cabinets, and
computers can prevent devices from being
accessed or stolen.
2.3.B.4
Card readers can record which employee
badges are being used to access different
entries at specific times and deny access to
unauthorized badges.
2.3.B.5
Access control vestibules and turnstiles
can prevent an authorized person from
intentionally or accidentally admitting an
unauthorized person into a restricted area.
2.3.B.6
Organizations can disable USB ports to
prevent external drives from loading malware
onto a computer.
2.3.B.7
An uninterruptible power supply (UPS)
provides a backup power source for a device
in the event of a power outage. Organizations
can also use power generators to provide
power at a larger scale to a building or set of
critical devices.
2.3.B.8
Organizations prioritize risk mitigations based
on the severity of the risks and the cost of the
recommended mitigations.
60 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 67 of 192 --

Securing Spaces UNIT
2
TOPIC 2.4
Detecting Physical
Attacks
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
3.A
Identify methods for monitoring
systems, and explain how they
detect attacks.
3.B
Determine strategies and
methods to detect attacks.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
2.4.A
Identify ways security controls
can detect physical attacks.
2.4.B
Determine effective placement
of security controls for
detecting physical attacks.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
2.4.A.1
Cameras can capture a visual record of an
adversary’s malicious activity. The feed from a
camera should be recorded and monitored for
maximum effect. Recordings can be especially
helpful in after-incident investigations.
2.4.A.2
Security guards can monitor activity in an
area and respond to suspicious activity once
detected.
2.4.A.3
Motion sensors can alert security to
movement in an area.
2.4.A.4
Employees that work in a physical space are
often the first to notice the presence of an
unauthorized person and can alert security.
2.4.B.1
When placing cameras, consideration should
be given to visual coverage, angle, and the
ability to be tampered with by an adversary.
Consideration should also be given to what
a camera in a specific area could capture an
adversary doing and how that information
would be helpful. Points of ingress and egress
are often monitored by camera.
2.4.B.2
Motion sensors should be placed in areas
where traffic is unexpected, like server rooms,
or areas where sensitive materials are stored
and few people have access. Motion sensors
in high-traffic areas create many false alarms,
making the alarms less likely to be taken
seriously when there is a real security event.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	61

-- 68 of 192 --

Securing Spaces
UNIT
2
2.4.B
Determine effective placement
of security controls for
detecting physical attacks
2.4.B.3
Locks should be placed on all entries to
areas containing sensitive information or
systems. For areas with particularly sensitive
information or systems, an organization could
use an access control vestibule at the entry
point to prevent piggybacking or tailgating.
2.4.B.4
Security guards can be stationary or patrolling.
Stationary guards can provide constant
protection for a specific area, entrance, or
high-value item. Patrolling guards are more
difficult for an adversary to plan around and
can create time pressure for an adversary.
Placing stationary guards at places that funnel
traffic (e.g., entry gates, main entrances or
lobbies, and entrances to more secure access
areas) can be highly effective, while patrolling
guards are better suited for perimeters and
exterior areas.
2.4.C
Apply detection techniques to
identify physical attacks.
2.4.C.1
Cameras provide visual monitoring and a
visual record of activity within a designated
space. Cameras can be paired with facial
recognition software that can provide alerts
when unauthorized individuals enter controlled
areas. Once a physical breach has been
detected, defenders can use live and recorded
camera footage to track an adversary’s path
and actions.
2.4.C.2
Motion detectors work best when paired
with cameras. When a security alert is
raised because a motion detector has been
activated, defenders can use cameras to
check the space visually and verify a physical
security breach.
2.4.C.3
When employees are required to use an
electronic badge to unlock a door to a
restricted area, a sensor can record how long
the door was open. In reviewing entry logs for
the door, potential piggybacking or tailgating
can be detected by doors being open for
longer than normal lengths of time.
62 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 69 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
UNIT 	3
Securing
Networks
~2
CLASS
6
PERIODS

-- 70 of 192 --



-- 71 of 192 --

UNIT
3
Securing Networks
~26 	CLASS PERIODS
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Developing Understanding
Most digital devices are connected to other devices through a computer network.
The transmission of data between devices creates new opportunities for adversaries,
so defenders must think carefully about how networks are designed and how data
is protected while in transit. In this unit, students learn about common network
attacks and how to protect against them. Students study the benefits of network
segmentation and learn how to place and configure firewalls to manage network
traffic. They also learn how to analyze network log files to find possible indicators of
compromise (IoCs).
Building Cybersecurity Skills
In Unit 3, students learn to apply their risk assessment skills in the domain of
networking, identifying vulnerabilities and evaluating the likelihood and impact of
a vulnerability being exploited to determine the risk. Students learn how to apply
security controls to a network to help prevent and deter adversaries, and how
to collect and analyze network data to detect attacks. Students also learn how
automated tools, including AI, enable faster, more efficient detection of malicious
activity on networks.
65

-- 72 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
Unit Scenarios
The scenarios for this unit are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain to realistic workplace tasks. The scenarios are paired with relevant
student activities. Teachers may use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu
of, those provided here.
SCENARIO 3A:
Protecting Patient Medical Data
You are a network security engineer at Adams County Hospital. Adams County
Hospital maintains public servers that run a web application for patients to book
appointments and pay bills and an internal file server that stores patient records
(see network diagram). You need to determine the best placement for two new
firewalls to protect these servers and then configure the servers to meet a set of
specifications.
You will:
§ Review the building plans and current security controls for this new lab and
identify physical vulnerabilities
§ Assess the risk from the vulnerabilities identified
§ Recommend physical security controls to mitigate these vulnerabilities
§ Recommend the placement of monitoring equipment to detect physical
security breaches
SCENARIO 3B:
Configuring a Secure Wireless Network
In the aftermath of a natural disaster, as a network technician in the National
Guard, you have been called up and asked to set up a secure wireless network
at the local high school gymnasium, which has been converted to an emergency
shelter, so that those who lost their homes in the disaster can have access to the
internet to communicate with family and friends.
There is a satellite link that will provide the access to the internet. Your task is to
determine the security features necessary to ensure that the network is safe to
use. Your plan should include measures to detect possible malicious activity on
the network that would compromise security or performance.
You will:
§ Describe configurations to secure the wireless network
§ Recommend a collection of detective controls to monitor the network and
raise an alert for any potential malicious activity
§ Describe the impact of the detective control recommendations
66 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 73 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
SCENARIO 3C:
Submarines are a critical component in a modern navy. Modern submarines have
sophisticated control mechanisms that are run by computers that communicate via a
secure network. You are a network technician on a naval submarine, and you manage
three LANs:
Protecting a Network on a Naval Submarine
§ A dedicated LAN for the weapons systems
§ A secure LAN for official naval operations
§ A LAN for crew to use for recreation
You will consider the various levels of security needed for each of these LANs and
how best to protect each one. Then you will:
§ Recommend security features for each LAN
§ Use a diagram to demonstrate the recommended security features
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	67

-- 74 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
UNIT AT A GLANCE
68 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
Class
Periods
3.1 Network
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
3.1.A
3.1.B
Identify common network attacks.
Explain how adversaries can
exploit network vulnerabilities to
steal, disrupt, or destroy network
communication.
3A Protecting Patient Medical Data
Analyze the current network architecture
and determine network vulnerabilities.
6
3.1.C Assess and document risks from
network vulnerabilities.
3.2 Protecting
Networks:
Managerial
Controls
and Wireless
Security
3.2.A
3.2.B
Identify managerial controls related
to network security.
Configure wireless network
security features.
3B Configuring a Secure Wireless Network
Describe configurations to secure the
wireless network.
3
3.3 Protecting
Networks:
Segmentation
3.3.A
3.3.B
Identify techniques for segmenting
a network.
Explain why network segmentation
can increase network security.
3C Protecting a Network on a Naval Submarine
Recommend security features for each LAN.
Use a diagram to demonstrate the
recommended security features.
2
3.4 Protecting
Networks:
Firewalls
3.4.A
3.4.B
3.4.C
3.4.D Configure a firewall to manage the
flow of network traffic.
Identify types of network-based
firewalls.
Explain how a firewall uses an
access control list to allow or
deny traffic entering or leaving a
network.
Determine the effective placement
of firewalls in a network.
3A Protecting Patient Medical Data
Determine the type and placement of
Firewalls A and B within the existing network.
Configure Firewall A so that external
traffic can securely communicate with the
web server while blocking other types of
nonrelevant, potentially malicious traffic.
Configure Firewall B so that only employees
on the internal network can access patient
records on the file server.
8
3C Protecting a Network on a Naval Submarine
Recommend security features for each LAN.
Use a diagram to demonstrate the
recommended security features.
3.5 Detecting
Network
Attacks
3.5.A
3.5.B
3.5.C
Identify types of automated
security tools used to detect
network attacks.
Explain how organizations can
leverage artificial intelligence (AI)
to enhance threat detection and
response.
Determine a network detection
method.
3B Configuring a Secure Wireless Network
Recommend a collection of detective
controls to monitor the network and raise an
alert for any potential malicious activity.
Describe the impact of the detective control
recommendations.
7
3.5.D Evaluate the impact of a network
detection method.
3.5.E Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of network
attacks by analyzing log files.

-- 75 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
TOPIC 3.1
Network
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
1.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
1.D
Document, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
3.1.A
Identify common network
attacks.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
3.1.A.1
The address resolution protocol (ARP) is used
by a default gateway on a network to establish
a table that pairs internet protocol (IP)
addresses with media access control (MAC)
addresses. An ARP poisoning attack is when
an adversary sends falsified ARP packets to
the default gateway to modify the table so
that the adversary’s device receives traffic
intended for the target by linking the target’s
IP address to the adversary’s MAC address.
Faking a MAC address is called MAC spoofing.
This is an example of an on-path attack (or
man-in-the-middle attack), which is when an
adversary interrupts a data stream between
two parties, captures both parties’ data, and
copies or alters the data before sending them
on. Both parties think they are communicating
directly with each other, but instead they are
each communicating with the adversary who is
secretly intercepting their messages.
3.1.A.2
A MAC flooding attack is when an adversary
sends the target switch many Ethernet frames,
each with a different MAC address. This can
force the switch into broadcast mode, and the
adversary can then collect all of the frames
on the network (because they are being
broadcast), which could allow the adversary
to access sensitive information. This is an
example of eavesdropping (or sniffing), which
is when an adversary captures data in transit
and can record and copy the data.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	69

-- 76 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.1.A
Identify common network
attacks.
3.1.B
Explain how adversaries can
exploit network vulnerabilities
to steal, disrupt, or destroy
network communication.
3.1.A.3
A domain name system (DNS) poisoning
attack is when an adversary pretends to
be an authoritative name server (NS) and
plants a fake DNS record on a DNS server
to redirect browser traffic to a malicious
website designed to steal credentials. This is
an example of credential harvesting, which is
when adversaries set up a fake login site that
looks like a real one. Unsuspecting users enter
their real credentials, which the adversaries
capture and use.
3.1.A.4
A smurf attack attempts to overwhelm a
network with Internet Control Message
Protocol (ICMP) requests. It is a type of denial
of service (DoS) attack, which makes a system
or resource unavailable to authorized users.
During a smurf attack, an adversary sends
many ICMP requests with the victim’s address
to the network’s broadcast address. The
network’s gateway then sends these requests
to all devices on the network. Each device on
the network replies to the victim’s address,
creating a flood of traffic that can block
legitimate messages. When multiple devices
attack the same target simultaneously, it’s
called a distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attack.
3.1.B.1
Adversaries can send malicious traffic into a
network to flood it creating a DoS, to map the
internal structure of the network, or to spoof a
legitimate device. Networks without firewalls,
or with improperly configured firewalls, are
vulnerable to these types of attacks.
3.1.B.2
Adversaries that have compromised a device
often attempt to leverage their access to
compromise other devices on the local area
network (LAN).
3.1.B.3
Adversaries that physically plug into a data
port can gain access to a LAN through the
switch port unless port security is enabled.
This allows adversaries to launch DoS attacks
or perform MAC flooding or MAC spoofing
attacks.
70 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 77 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
3.1.B
Explain how adversaries can
exploit network vulnerabilities
to steal, disrupt, or destroy
network communication.
3.1.C
Assess and document risks
from network vulnerabilities.
3.1.B.4
Adversaries standing outside of physically
secure spaces can pick up the signals and
beacon frames from a wireless access point
that is broadcasting outside the physical
space. This allows them to gather information
about the wireless network and to attempt
eavesdropping and cryptographic attacks
on it.
3.1.B.5
Adversaries can attempt to join networks
to launch attacks from within the networks.
Networks that do not authenticate devices and
users make it easier for adversaries to join.
3.1.B.6
If there is an open network port, an adversary
can plug a wireless access point into the port
creating a rogue access point. The adversary
could use this rogue access point to access
the internal network wirelessly (maybe even
from outside the physical space). This allows
the adversary direct access to the LAN,
bypassing any firewalls.
3.1.B.7
Adversaries can attempt to break wireless
encryption and intercept, steal, or compromise
data on a network.
3.1.C.1
Vulnerabilities on a network can lead to
adversaries being able to intercept and alter
data in transit, launch DoS attacks, or move
laterally on a network to gain access to
more sensitive or critical systems. Network
vulnerabilities can constitute a risk to
confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
3.1.C.2
There are automated vulnerability scanners
that can check networks, devices, and
applications for known vulnerabilities. These
scanners produce a report that often includes
the vulnerabilities detected, their severity, and
mitigation recommendations.
3.1.C.3
Successfully exploiting a network vulnerability
often requires advanced technical ability and
knowledge. This can impact the likelihood of
an exploit.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	71

-- 78 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.1.C
Assess and document risks
from network vulnerabilities.
3.1.C.4
High risks from network vulnerabilities allow
an adversary to easily have a significant
impact by capturing network traffic, spoofing a
legitimate device on the network, or launching
a DoS attack.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An organization has a single unsegmented
internal network that is accessible via a
wireless network with weak encryption, and
on that network it has a server running its
proprietary web-application.
3.1.C.5
Moderate risks from network vulnerabilities
could include vulnerabilities that might give
adversaries the ability to gain information
about systems or devices on a network.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An organization’s external firewall is not
configured to block external ICMP traffic.
3.1.C.6
Low risks from network vulnerabilities include
vulnerabilities that would be difficult to
exploit and would likely have minimal negative
impacts on an organization.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An organization has wireless access points
that broadcast a beacon frame, which contains
the network service set identifier (SSID) and
the wireless encryption protocols.
72 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 79 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
TOPIC 3.2
Protecting Networks:
Managerial Controls
and Wireless Security
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
2.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the impact of
protective risk-management
strategies.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
3.2.A
Identify managerial controls
related to network security.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
3.2.A.1
A router security policy will set forth a
minimum configuration standard for routers on
an organization’s network and may include:
§ Banning local user accounts (All
router logins must use an approved
authentication server.)
§ Disabling unnecessary services (e.g.,
Telnet)
§ Requiring a firewall (An organization may
opt for a firewall device separate from the
router.)
3.2.A.2
A switch security policy will set forth a
minimum configuration standard for switches
on an organization’s network and may include:
§ Banning local user accounts (All
switch logins must use an approved
authentication server.)
§ Requiring port security to be enabled.
§ Using MAC filtering
3.2.A.3
A virtual private network (VPN) policy will
detail the minimum security requirements
for employees using a VPN to access an
organization’s internal network, and it may
include:
§ A list of roles within the organization that
are allowed to use a VPN to access the
organization’s internal network
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	73

-- 80 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.2.A
Identify managerial controls
related to network security.
3.2.B
Configure wireless network
security features.
§ Authentication requirements for
employees using a VPN (e.g., public/private
key system or MFA)
§ A prohibition against split tunneling (also
called dual tunneling)
3.2.A.4
A wireless security policy will establish the
minimum security requirements for wireless
networks within an organization and may
include:
§ Requiring users to authenticate to the
wireless network through an extensible
authentication protocol (EAP) connected
to an approved authentication server
§ Requiring all wireless traffic to be
encrypted using AES encryption with a
minimum key length
§ Disabling beacon frames on wireless
access points
3.2.B.1
Organizations can disable beacon frame
broadcasting on wireless access points
(WAPs) to make it harder for adversaries to
find their wireless network and learn its basic
properties.
3.2.B.2
Organizations can control the broadcast
direction and signal strength of a WAP so the
signal does not extend beyond the physical
space the access point is meant to cover.
3.2.B.3
Organizations should enable strong wireless
encryption protocols to ensure wireless
frames are not readable by adversaries who
might intercept them.
§ WEP, WPS, and the original WPA wireless
encryption protocols have known
vulnerabilities and are insecure.
§ WPA3 is currently the strongest wireless
encryption algorithm.
3.2.B.4
Organizations can enable MAC filtering to
prevent unauthorized devices from accessing
the network, and they can require users to
authenticate when joining a network.
74 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 81 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
TOPIC 3.3
Protecting Networks:
Segmentation
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
3.3.A
Identify techniques for
segmenting a network.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
3.3.A.1
Firewall zones and rules can be used to
create a screened subnet (also known as
a demilitarized zone, or DMZ)—a network
segment that sits between public, external
networks like the internet and internal, private
networks. A screened subnet is typically
is a lower security zone than the internal,
private networks, and it typically holds an
organization’s publicly facing resources,
separating them from the internal network.
3.3.A.2
Subnetting can be used to create different
subnets based on IP addressing. If a device
is compromised by an adversary, subnets
can contain a security breach to reduce the
number of exposed devices.
3.3.A.3
Switches can be used to create VLANs,
which logically separate devices physically
connected to central switches.
3.3.B
Explain why network
segmentation can increase
network security.
3.3.B.1
Network segmentation refers to the process
of dividing a network into smaller, isolated
segments or subnetworks (subnets).
3.3.B.2
Dividing a network into smaller subnets
isolates network traffic, which can prevent
attacks on one subnet from impacting devices
on other subnets.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	75

-- 82 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.3.B
Explain why network
segmentation can increase
network security.
3.3.B.3
Network segmentation can allow for different
security policies and controls to be applied to
different segments of the network, allowing
for higher security zones and lower security
zones.
3.3.B.4
Port security on a switch can prevent MAC
flooding by limiting the number of addresses
assignable to any single switch port.
76 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 83 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
FIGURE 3.3: Screened Subnet (also referred to as DMZ)
A screened subnet, also known as a DMZ, is a part of a network that is behind a firewall
but still externally accessible. Screened subnets often contain servers that host web
applications or websites. Beyond the screened subnet is a second firewall that more
strictly restricts access to the LAN behind it.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	77

-- 84 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
TOPIC 3.4
Protecting Networks:
Firewalls
SUGGESTED SKILLS
Required Course Content
2.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the impact of
protective risk-management
strategies.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
Identify types of network-
based firewalls.
3.4.A
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
3.4.A.1
A firewall is used to allow or deny network
traffic in or out of a network. The firewall itself
is software that can be hosted on a standalone
device or integrated into another network
device, such as a router.
3.4.A.2
A stateless firewall filters traffic based on
information in packet headers, such as IP
addresses, ports, and protocols.
3.4.A.3
A stateful firewall (also known as dynamic
packet filtering) tracks the state of network
connections passing through the firewall and
can filter according to connection-related
rules in addition to the filtering done by a
stateless firewall. This allows for more control
over content allowed in and out of a network.
3.4.A.4
A next-generation firewall (NGFW) has both the
capabilities of typical stateless and stateful
firewalls and additional advanced features,
such as intrusion prevention, deep packet
inspection, and filtering by application type.
3.4.B
Explain how a firewall uses an
access control list to allow or
deny traffic entering or leaving
a network.
3.4.B.1
Network administrators create a set of rules,
called an access control list (ACL), that a
firewall uses to permit or deny inbound and
outbound network traffic.
78 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 85 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
3.4.B
Explain how a firewall uses an
access control list to allow or
deny traffic entering or leaving
a network.
3.4.C
Determine the effective
placement of firewalls in a
network.
3.4.B.2
ACL rules are checked in order and the first
rule that matches the criteria will be executed
for the specified data.
3.4.B.3
A typical ACL will specify the direction of
traffic (inbound or outbound), the criterion to
filter by (IP addresses, logical port, service, or
application), and the action to take (permit or
deny).
3.4.C.1
Each segment of a network should have a
firewall to control the flow of data in and out of
that segment.
3.4.C.2
Network segments may have different security
needs based on the data and services within
them. The level of security for each firewall can
be set independently.
3.4.C.3
Each point of data ingress and egress
between the internal network and the public
internet should have a firewall.
3.4.D.1
The requirements for a firewall will specify
what type of traffic from which sources or
to which destinations should be allowed or
denied.
3.4.D.2
Specific rules for a firewall can allow or deny
inbound or outbound traffic based on source
or destination port or IP address, service,
protocol, or application.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
§ Allow inbound TCP port 22 from
ALL; (this rule will allow all inbound TCP
traffic with destination port 22, which is the
designated port for the SSH protocol)
§ Deny inbound TCP port 80 from
192.168.1.0/24; (this rule will deny
inbound TCP traffic with destination port
80 from IP addresses in the 192.168.1.0-
192.168.1.255 range)
3.4.D
Configure a firewall to manage
the flow of network traffic.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	79

-- 86 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.4.D
Configure a firewall to manage
the flow of network traffic.
3.4.D.3
Rules are implemented in order, and changing
the order of a set of rules can change which
traffic is allowed or denied. Consideration
must be given to the precedence of filtering
priorities when establishing the order of rules.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
This set of rules would allow SSH traffic and
deny other inbound TCP traffic
§ Rule 1: ALLOW inbound TCP port 22
from ALL;
§ Rule 2: DENY inbound TCP ALL from
ALL;
Reversing the order of those rules would deny
all inbound TCP traffic including SSH traffic.
80 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 87 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
FIGURE 3.4: The Process of Firewalls
A firewall is used to admit or deny traffic entry into a network or host. Firewalls might
use source IP addresses, destination IP addresses, or logical ports to filter traffic. This
illustration depicts a firewall controlling incoming traffic. Note that firewalls can control
traffic into, out of, and within a network.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	81

-- 88 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
TOPIC 3.5
Detecting Network
Attacks
Required Course Content
SUGGESTED SKILLS
3.C
Evaluate the impact of threat
detection methods.
3.D
Detect and classify
cyberattacks by analyzing
digital evidence with and
without the support of AI.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
3.5.A
Identify types of automated
security tools used to detect
network attacks.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
3.5.A.1
Automated detection tools analyze data
collected from an organization’s network
and devices, such as switches and routers,
servers, firewalls, and user computers. These
data are often collected in a log file.
3.5.A.2
A network intrusion detection system (NIDS)
is an automated tool that analyzes data to
determine if malicious activity is taking place
on a network. When an attack is detected, it
generates an alert.
3.5.A.3
A network intrusion prevention system (NIPS)
is an automated tool that, like an IDS, analyzes
data to determine if malicious activity is taking
place on a network. A NIPS can also mitigate
or halt an attack by closing ports, blocking
specific IP or MAC addresses, or rejecting
specific protocols.
3.5.A.4
A security information and event management
(SIEM) system collects and analyzes data
from multiple sources (including firewalls,
NIDS/NIPS, device logs, and application
logs) to detect patterns that may indicate a
cyberattack and raises an alert if a potential
attack is detected. Security analysts
investigate the alert to determine whether it
represents a true threat and follow standard
operating procedures to resolve or escalate
the alert.
82 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 89 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
3.5.B
Explain how organizations can
leverage artificial intelligence
(AI) to enhance threat detection
and response.
3.5.C
Determine a network detection
method.
3.5.B.1
Computers log every action that users
take. Firewalls, IDS, IPS, and other network
sensors log all the traffic passing through
various points in a network. A medium-sized
organization’s network is logging millions (or
even tens of millions) of data points per day.
Even a large team of humans is incapable of
analyzing so much data.
3.5.B.2
Threat detection teams are creating AI
algorithms to analyze large amounts of data
and classify the data patterns as malicious or
normal.
3.5.B.3
AI models for threat detection are based
on probabilistic calculations; they report a
percentage to indicate the likelihood that
something is malicious.
3.5.B.4
Organizations determine their own thresholds
for what percentage of likelihood of a threat
results in an alert. If the threshold is set too
high, real attacks may go undetected; if the
threshold is too low, the security team will be
overwhelmed with false alerts.
3.5.C.1
Volume of network traffic is a criterion for
determining a detection method. Signature-
based detection is more efficient for networks
with high traffic volume. Signature-based
detection compares detection data to a
database of known indicators of compromise
(IoCs), called signatures. Signature databases
must be updated with IoCs for the latest
attacks. Signature-based detection runs more
quickly than anomaly-based detection.
3.5.C.2
Consistency of network traffic patterns is a
criterion for determining a detection method.
Anomaly-based detection is most effective
on networks with consistent traffic patterns.
Anomaly-based detection compares detection
data to a baseline of recorded activity. Baselines
must be recorded on uncompromised systems
to establish expected data types and volumes.
Anomaly-based detection triggers an alert or
action when data types or volumes outside
of a specified tolerance range are recorded.
Anomaly-based detection relies on consistent
patterns in network traffic to detect anomalous
traffic patterns.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	83

-- 90 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.5.C
Determine a network detection
method.
3.5.D
Evaluate the impact of a
network detection method.
3.5.C.3
Degree of sensitivity or criticality of a network
is a criterion for determining a detection
method. Networks with more sensitive or
critical data or services will likely consider a
hybrid approach. Hybrid detection combines
signature-based and anomaly-based
detection. Hybrid detection is more expensive
than using either signature- or anomaly-based
detection alone, and hybrid-detection models
generate more alerts.
3.5.C.4
Likelihood of novel attacks on a network is a
criterion for determining a detection method.
Signature-based detection cannot detect a
new attack. When an organization suspects
that adversaries are likely to attempt a new
attack on a network, anomaly-based detection
is the preferred method when the cost of
hybrid detection is prohibitively high.
3.5.D.1
Speed of detection is a factor in evaluating the
impact of a network detection method. Faster
detection enables faster response. Signature-
based detection methods are faster than
anomaly-based detection methods, especially
on networks with high traffic volume.
3.5.D.2
Cost is a factor in evaluating the impact of a
network detection method. Detection tools
and ongoing costs need to be within a budget.
Anomaly-based detection systems require
more expensive hardware to operate than
signature based. Hybrid detection is the most
expensive option because it combines both
anomaly- and signature-based methods.
3.5.D.3
False positive rate is a factor in evaluating
the impact of a network detection method.
Signature-based detection has almost no false
positives. Anomaly-based or hybrid detection
will have higher false positive rates. Impacts of
high false positive rates include:
§ Time and resources are put toward
investigating alerts for nonmalicious
activity.
§ Alert fatigue is a condition that occurs
when responders get accustomed to false
positives and take alerts less seriously
because they assume alerts are false
positives before investigating them.
84 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 91 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
3.5.D
Evaluate the impact of a
network detection method.
3.5.E
Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of network
attacks by analyzing log files.
3.5.D.4
False negative rate is a factor in evaluating
the impact of a network detection method. A
false negative occurs when an adversary can
bypass a detection system. Signature-based
detection systems are easier to bypass than
anomaly-based or hybrid systems. False
negatives can result in adversaries causing
loss, harm, disruption, or destruction to data
and systems.
3.5.E.1
Evil-twin attacks can be detected by regularly
scanning for service set identifiers (SSIDs)
that look suspicious or similar to local
legitimate SSIDs. Signal triangulation can be
used to locate and disable an access point
broadcasting an evil-twin network.
3.5.E.2
Jamming attacks can be detected by
recognizing that no wireless devices in a
specific physical space are able to connect
to a wireless network and by scanning for
electromagnetic (EM) noise in the wireless
range.
3.5.E.3
ARP poisoning attacks can be detected by
monitoring network traffic for unusual ARP
messages (particularly duplicate MAC address
ARP packets) and checking the ARP table on
the default gateway.
3.5.E.4
MAC flooding attacks can be detected by
monitoring network traffic for an unexpected
surge of Ethernet frames with different MAC
addresses and checking the MAC address
table on a switch.
3.5.E.5
DNS poisoning attacks are difficult to
detect. However, if an organization’s website
experiences an abrupt and otherwise
inexplicable drop in traffic, DNS records should
be examined as a potential cause.
3.5.E.6
Smurf attacks can be detected by watching
network traffic for a sudden increase in ICMP
requests sent to the network’s broadcast
address.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	85

-- 92 of 192 --

Securing Networks
UNIT
3
3.5.E
Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of network
attacks by analyzing log files.
3.5.E.7
Network-based IoCs are discovered when
analyzing network traffic, often in the form of
packet capture files. Indicators can be found
in source and destination IP addresses, ports,
and protocols. These can include:
§ Connections to known malicious IP
addresses
§ Unauthorized network scans
§ Unusual spikes or slow downs in network
traffic
§ Mismatched port-application traffic
86 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 93 of 192 --

Securing Networks UNIT
3
Signature-Based Detection Technique
Anomaly-Based Detection Technique
FIGURE 3.5: Signature-Based vs. Anomaly-Based Detection Techniques
Signature-based detection (top) showcases identification of known malware through digital
signatures, relying on predefined patterns for efficient threat detection. Anomaly-based
detection (bottom) demonstrates detection of new threats by analyzing deviations from
normal behavior, identifying potential risks based on abnormal patterns. This enhances
overall security measures.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	87

-- 94 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 95 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
UNIT 	4
Securing
Devices
~
CLASS PERIODS
23

-- 96 of 192 --



-- 97 of 192 --

UNIT
4
Securing Devices
~23 	CLASS PERIODS
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Developing Understanding
Computer devices store, process, and transmit all the digital data in the world.
Devices include computer systems and laptops, smart phones and tablets, and a
range of items that have microcomputers installed in them, like washing machines
and coffee makers—these are often called smart devices or IoT (Internet of
Things) devices. In Unit 4, students learn about how systems authenticate users of
devices and how adversaries attempt to impersonate legitimate users. Students
come to understand how adversaries use malware to compromise devices and
the importance of keeping devices updated and of using anti-malware software.
Students also learn how to analyze log files for indicators of compromise (IoCs).
Building Cybersecurity Skills
As more everyday items incorporate embedded computers, device vulnerabilities
and attacks are growing rapidly. In this unit, students learn to assess risk based on
these new vulnerabilities. They learn how devices can be protected as another part
of a defense-in-depth security strategy. Students also practice detecting attacks
against devices by reviewing authentication logs for IoCs.
91

-- 98 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
Unit Scenarios
The scenarios for this unit are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain to realistic workplace tasks. The scenarios are paired with relevant
student activities. Teachers may use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu
of, those provided here.
SCENARIO 4A:
Designing Secure Connected Farm Equipment
You work as a security engineer for a company that manufactures internet-
connected machinery for agricultural purposes (e.g., tractors, irrigation tools, and
automated milking machines for dairy farms). These machines all have onboard
computers that allow farmers to remotely control the devices. The computers
are updated on an as-needed basis. Some of the machines use GPS to locate
and maneuver themselves.
There have been reports of cyberattacks against farming equipment, and your
boss has asked you to write a report detailing possible vulnerabilities with
suggested mitigations to ensure that the machines your company produces are
as safe as possible.
You will:
§ Research how an adversary might take advantage of internet-connected
farm equipment, and assess the risk from possible vulnerabilities
§ Determine possible mitigation strategies to help secure the equipment
§ Produce a report for your manager, summarizing your findings and making
recommendations
SCENARIO 4B:
Configuring Authentication Settings
You are a junior system administrator at Aceshack, an engineering firm. A new
desktop computer has been set up in a drop-in area of Aceshack’s office for
remote workers who are coming in just for the day. This new computer needs the
security settings configured to comply with Aceshack’s policies.
You will log on to this computer as an administrator and configure the local
security settings related to the password and account-lockout policies.
SCENARIO 4C:
Analyzing Log Files for Indicators of Compromise
You are a forensic analyst for Dynamic, a local manufacturing company. Dynamic
has separate networks for its offices and its manufacturing plants. Last month,
there was a cyberattack against its business office network, but the adversaries
were not able to compromise the manufacturing network. However, the security
team has detected continued suspicious activity on the business network, and
92 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 99 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
they are concerned that the suspicious activity may stem from the original attack and
may eventually lead to the manufacturing environment also being compromised. You
have been asked to analyze the authentication logs for devices on the manufacturing
network for signs of adversaries attempting to compromise the manufacturing plant.
You will:
§ Review authentication logs for devices on the manufacturing network
§ Identify any potential indicators of compromise (IoCs)
§ Submit a report summarizing your findings and recommendations
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	93

-- 100 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
UNIT AT A GLANCE
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
Class
Periods
4.1 Device
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
4.1.A Identify types of computing devices.
4.1.B Identify the type of malware used in a
cyberattack.
4.1.C Explain how adversaries can exploit
common device vulnerabilities to
cause loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction.
4.1.D Assess and document risks from
device vulnerabilities.
4A Designing Secure Connected Farm
Equipment
Research how an adversary might take
advantage of internet-connected farm
equipment, and assess the risk from
possible vulnerabilities.
Produce a report for your manager,
summarizing your findings and making
recommendations.
6
4.2 Authentication 	4.2.A Explain why hashes (also called
hash outputs, checksums, message
digests, or digests) are used to store
passwords.
4.2.B Explain how password attacks exploit
vulnerabilities.
4.2.C Determine the type of authentication
used to verify the identity of a user.
4.2.D Configure login settings to make a
device more secure.
4B Configuring Authentication Settings
Configure the local security settings
related to the password and account-
lockout policies.
5
4.3 Protecting
Devices
4.3.A Identify managerial controls related
to device security.
4.3.B Explain how anti-malware software
can make a device more secure.
4.3.C Explain why keeping a device’s
operating system and software
updated makes it more secure.
4.3.D Configure a host-based firewall.
4A Designing Secure Connected Farm
Equipment
Determine possible mitigation
strategies to help secure the
equipment.
5
4.4 Detecting
Attacks on
Devices
4.4.A Explain how to detect attacks against
devices.
4.4.B Determine controls for detecting
attacks against a device.
4.4.C Evaluate the impact of a device
detection method.
4.4.D Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of password
attacks by analyzing log files.
4C Analyzing Log Files for Indicators of
Compromise
Review authentication logs for devices
on the manufacturing network.
Identify any potential IoCs.
Submit a report summarizing your
findings and recommendations.
7
94

-- 101 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
TOPIC 4.1
Device Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
4.1.A
Identify types of computing
devices.
4.1.A.1
Server computers are devices that provide
one or more services to other computers
(e.g., DNS, DHCP, FTP). Any computer can be
a server, and in an enterprise environment
servers typically have more processing power
and storage than a personal computer.
4.1.A.2
Personal computers are devices that are
designed to be used by one person for work or
recreational purposes (e.g., word processing,
graphic design, web browsing, and media
production or viewing). These include desktop,
laptop, and notebook computers.
4.1.A.3
Handheld computers (also called mobile
computers or information appliances) are
smaller than personal computers and run
on battery power. These include tablets,
smartphones, and wearable technology like
smart watches.
4.1.A.4
Embedded computers are devices that are
part of a machine. Embedded devices have
specific instruction sets for interfacing with
the specialized components of the machine
they’re embedded in. Embedded computers
tend to be slower and cheaper than other
computers and have minimal storage.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
1.D
Document, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
95

-- 102 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.1.A
Identify types of computing
devices.
4.1.A.5
Everyday devices with embedded computers
are often called Internet of Things (IoT)
devices. Embedded computers are found in
transportation (e.g., cars, trains, and airplanes),
devices that operate critical infrastructure
(e.g., operating circuit breakers at electrical
substations and pumps at water treatment
plants), medical equipment (e.g., IV pumps, MRI
scanners, pacemakers, and insulin pumps),
and everyday devices like washing machines,
coffee makers, and thermostats.
4.1.B
Identify the type of malware
used in a cyberattack.
4.1.B.1
Malware is malicious software that can
damage or destroy a device or network, or
allow an adversary access to a device and the
data on the device.
4.1.B.2
Malware is often used as a tool to accomplish
part of an adversary’s plan to achieve their
ultimate goal(s). There are many types of
malware, such as:
§ Viruses are malware that must be activated
by a user executing or opening a file.
§ Worms spread from one computer to
another without human interaction.
§ Trojans are malware embedded in other
software that seems harmless. Remote
access trojans (RATs) provide an adversary
with remote access to the target system.
§ Ransomware encrypts a device’s files,
preventing the user from accessing files
on the device. The ransomware typically
presents the user with a screen demanding
payment and promising to give the user
a decryption key for their files if the user
pays within a fixed amount of time.
§ Spyware tracks a user’s actions on a
computer and sends information back to
an adversary.
§ A keylogger is software or hardware that
logs the users keystrokes and sends
the information back to the adversary.
Adversaries can often extract usernames
and passwords from keylogger data.
§ Logic bombs are set to trigger their effect
only when a specific set of conditions
are met; the conditions can include time
and date, specific type or version of
the operating system, character set the
computer is using, etc.
96

-- 103 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.1.B
Identify the type of malware
used in a cyberattack.
§ A rootkit is sophisticated malware that
gets into the target computer’s operating
system and can control nearly every
aspect of the system, including making the
rootkit itself invisible to detection.
4.1.B.3
While most malware is a file or a collection of
files, fileless malware is malicious code that
lives in RAM and uses legitimate programs
already installed on a device to compromise it.
4.1.C
Explain how adversaries
can exploit common device
vulnerabilities to cause
loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction.
4.1.C.1
Adversaries can develop exploits for known
vulnerabilities in software (including operating
systems). Devices with unpatched software
are vulnerable to these exploits, which could
allow an adversary to crash a system, view
user actions, enable or disable various
services or components on the device (e.g.,
turning on a webcam or microphone), or even
take control of the device to issue their own
commands including commands to steal or
destroy information on the device.
4.1.C.2
Adversaries can take advantage of weak
authentication requirements by guessing a
user’s password or using social engineering to
get a user to divulge their password.
4.1.C.3
When systems don’t have a password on the
basic input output system (BIOS) or unified
extensible firmware interface (UEFI), an
adversary can boot a computer into a special
mode (e.g., “recovery mode”) that gives them
higher-level privileges. Without BIOS or UEFI
protection, adversaries can load their own
operating system onto a device from an
external drive and use specialized tools to alter
or create user profiles, including changing
user passwords.
4.1.C.4
Adversaries can load malware onto an external
drive, and if autorun is enabled, then a device
will run the malware when the external drive is
inserted.
4.1.C.5
Adversaries can leverage open ports to
connect to a device.
97

-- 104 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.1.C
Explain how adversaries
can exploit common device
vulnerabilities to cause
loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction.
4.1.D
Assess and document risks
from device vulnerabilities.
4.1.C.6
Adversaries can send malicious data to
devices to disrupt them or attempt to take
control of them. Devices that have no firewall
(or a misconfigured firewall) cannot filter out
this malicious data.
4.1.C.7
Adversaries often attempt to install malware
on a device to disrupt or control it. Devices
lacking anti-malware software are more
vulnerable to this type of attack.
4.1.D.1
Risk from device vulnerabilities can come from
unauthorized access or malware that allow an
adversary to impersonate an authorized user,
remotely control a device, encrypt a device’s
drive to ransom the data, or wipe a device’s
memory, destroying data or rendering the
device inoperable. The level of risk varies
depending on the criticality of the device or
the services the device provides or data it
stores.
4.1.D.2
High risks from device vulnerabilities involve
potentially compromising sensitive data or
critical operations.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An organization has not installed the
most recent update for their email server
which included a patch for a known critical
vulnerability.
4.1.D.3
Moderate risks from device vulnerabilities can
arise from weak authentication requirements
or from vulnerabilities that would be less likely
to be exploited.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
A water treatment plant has embedded
systems controlling pumps. The pumps can
be remotely accessed via username and
password for remote management for the
plant, but the devices do not require multi-
factor authentication (MFA).
4.1.D.4
Low risks from device vulnerabilities are
typically related to vulnerabilities that, if
exploited, would have little impact.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An employee’s laptop has telnet port 23 open.
98

-- 105 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
TOPIC 4.2
Authentication
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
4.2.A
Explain why hashes (also called
hash outputs, checksums,
message digests, or digests)
are used to store passwords.
4.2.A.1
A cryptographic hash function (also called a
message digest function) is a mathematical
algorithm that takes binary data of an arbitrary
length, processes it according to a set of
instructions, and outputs a fixed-length
binary string called the hash (or checksum or
message digest). Well known cryptographic
hashes include:
§ MD5
§ SHA-1, SHA-256, SHA-512 (SHA stands for
Secure Hash Algorithm)
§ NTHash
§ RIPEMD-160
4.2.A.2
An n-bit hash has 2n possible outputs. The
number of inputs is infinite, and so inevitably
two different inputs will produce the same
hash. This is called a collision.
4.2.A.3
Cryptographic hash functions have the
following properties:
§ Hashes are collision resistant; it is difficult
to find two different inputs to the same
hash function that produce the same
output.
§ Hashes have pre-image resistance; given a
hash, it is infeasible to figure out the input
that generated the hash.
§ Hashes are repeatable; the same input will
always produce the same hash.
§ Hashes have a fixed length; the length in bits
of the hash for a specific hash function is
constant regardless of the size of the input.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
2.B
Determine layered security
controls that address
vulnerabilities.
99

-- 106 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.2.A
Explain why hashes (also called
hash outputs, checksums,
message digests, or digests)
are used to store passwords.
4.2.A.4
Adversaries try to compromise hashing
functions by forcing collisions in their output. If
an efficient algorithm exists to force a collision
for a specific hash function, then that hash
function will be deprecated (no longer used in
secure settings). MD5 and SHA1 are examples
of deprecated hash functions.
4.2.A.5
Password-based authentication services
shouldn’t store passwords in plaintext,
so that if an adversary gains access to
the user:password directory they won’t
immediately know the passwords for all users.
Instead, user passwords should be hashed
and the hash stored in a database. When a
user enters their password, it is hashed, and
the hash is compared to the hash stored
on file. If the hashes match, then the user is
authenticated.
4.2.A.6
If two users had the same password, then their
passwords would have identical hashes in the
user:password directory. To prevent this, a
few random bits (called salt) are hashed with
a user’s password to generate the hash. Each
user’s salt is unique, so even if two users have
the same password they will have a different
password hash because they have different
salt.
4.2.B
Explain how password attacks
exploit vulnerabilities.
4.2.B.1
If an adversary can compromise the
password of a legitimate user, and that user’s
organization has not enabled MFA or other
authentication protections, then the adversary
can act within that organization with all the
access and rights available to the user.
4.2.B.2
Password attacks can be classified as online
or offline.
§ Online password attacks attempt
user:password combinations in an active
authentication portal.
§ Offline password attacks have captured
a user:password database and can run
password attacks against the database on
their own computer. This method bypasses
any account lock out protections that may
be in place.
100

-- 107 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.2.B
Explain how password attacks
exploit vulnerabilities.
4.2.B.3
Many users reuse the same passwords (or
variations of the same password) for all the
services and accounts they have, despite
warnings not to. When an organization’s user
database is stolen, the usernames, emails, and
passwords are sold to adversaries or posted
online. Adversaries often begin an attempt to
compromise an account by trying stolen or
leaked credentials for a target individual.
4.2.B.4
Many users set passwords that are easy to
guess, and adversaries will attempt to guess
common passwords for a user’s account.
Password spraying is an attack where an
adversary attempts a common password
against many different user accounts.
4.2.B.5
Some services and devices (e.g., switches,
routers, and IoT devices) are preconfigured
with a default administrative user and
password. Credential stuffing is an attack
where an adversary attempts to gain access
to these services or devices using common
default credentials or account credentials that
have been stolen.
4.2.B.6
Offline password attacks use automated hash-
cracking tools to hash possible passwords
and compare them against a captured hash.
Although hashes can’t be reversed, an
adversary can use these tools to hash many
potential passwords and compare them to
the target hash. If an adversary finds a hash
that matches, they can use the password
that generated the hash to login to the user’s
account. Offline attacks include:
§ Brute force attacks, where an adversary
uses an automated tool to test all the
potential passwords that a user could have
§ Dictionary attacks, where an adversary
uses an automated tool to test a list of
common passwords
4.2.B.7
A rainbow table attack uses a list of common
passwords to generate a rainbow table.
A rainbow table is a table that contains each
potential password and its hash. The table is then
sorted by the hashes, and the adversary uses an
automated tool to search the list of hashes for
the captured hash. If the hashes match, then the
adversary has found a password that generates
the same hash, and the password will allow the
adversary to login to the user’s account.
101

-- 108 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
4.2.C
Determine the type of
authentication used to verify
the identity of a user.
4.2.C.1
Authentication mechanisms are technical
controls that verify the identity of a user to
ensure that only authorized users access
a system. The proof the user provides to
identify themselves is called a factor. Common
authentication factors include:
§ Something the user knows (knowledge
factor)
§ Something the user has (possession
factor)
§ Something the user is (biometric factor)
§ Somewhere the user is (location factor)
4.2.C.2
Knowledge factors can be passwords, PINs, or
answers to preselected challenge questions.
For a knowledge factor to be effective it needs
to be something an adversary can’t easily
guess; however, knowledge factors that are
difficult for an adversary to figure out can also
be harder for a user to remember.
4.2.C.3
A possession factor is an object a user has
that is unique to them, such as an access card,
a bank card, a cell phone, or an authentication
token. The more difficult it is for an adversary
to obtain the object (or a copy of it), the more
secure the possession factor is.
4.2.C.4
Biometric factors measure features of the
human body and can include fingerprints, palm
prints, facial recognition, iris or retina scans,
or voice identification. Biometric factors are
difficult for an adversary to duplicate because
they are unique to an individual.
4.2.C.5
Location factors use information about
Wi-Fi signals, GPS data, time zone settings,
and even IP address information to make
determinations about location. Rules can be
established for allowing or denying access
based on a location factor.
4.2.C.6
Multifactor authentication (MFA) is when
a system uses more than one factor to
authenticate a user. MFA is more secure
than single-factor authentication because
it requires the user to provide at least two
separate factors of authentication.
102

-- 109 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
4.2.D
Configure login settings to
make a device more secure.
4.2.D.1
Requiring complexity in passwords is a login
setting that can be configured. When enabled,
users setting a new password must include at
least one character from each character set.
Passwords with characters from each character
set are significantly harder for an adversary
to crack than passwords that use characters
from only one or two character sets. The main
character sets often required are:
§ Uppercase letters (A–Z)
§ Lowercase letters (a–z)
§ Numeric digits (0–9)
§ Special characters (!”#$%&’()*+,-./:;<=>?@
[ \ ] ^_`{|}~)
4.2.D.2
Requiring a minimum password length is a
login setting that can be configured. This
means that users must have at least a certain
number of characters in their password. The
longer and more complex a password is, the
longer it will take a digital tool to crack the
password.
4.2.D.3
Requiring a maximum password age is a
login setting that can be configured. When
configured, users will receive a prompt to
change their password a certain number of
days after their last password change, usually
every 90 or 120 days. If a user’s password has
been compromised, changing it could prevent
an adversary from gaining access to the user’s
account. However, some national standards
recommend that organizations not require
users to change their passwords on predefined
intervals to discourage users from developing
password patterns (e.g., PasswordFall2028).
4.2.D.4
Requiring the system to store a certain
number of previous user passwords is a
login setting that can be configured. This
prevents a user from reusing a password.
Many organizations store users’ previous 5–10
password hashes to prevent reuse.
4.2.D.5
Requiring a lockout period after a certain number
of invalid login attempts is a login setting that
can be configured. This prevents an adversary
from continuously randomly attempting wrong
passwords. Many organizations lock a user’s
account after 3–5 invalid login attempts. The
period of the lockout varies.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	103

-- 110 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
FIGURE 4.2A: The Cryptographic Hash Function
The purpose of a cryptographic hash function is to verify the integrity of data and to
show that the data have not been altered. Here, notice that any misspelling, additional
text, or changes to the input will completely alter the hash output (also known as
the checksum, message digest, or digest). However, any inputs that are exactly the
same—such as the first and last, and the second and sixth—result in the same exact
digest. The cryptographic hash function is one-way, meaning that a user cannot derive
the input from the digest.
104 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 111 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
FIGURE 4.2B: Types of Password Attacks – Password Spraying vs.
Credential Stuffing
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework
Password spraying (left) depicts an attack method in which adversaries attempt a few
commonly used passwords across many accounts to attempt to gain unauthorized
access, exploiting weak password policies and practices. Credential stuffing (right)
shows attempts to use common credentials from one service to access other
accounts, highlighting the risk of using default or common usernames and passwords.
return to contents 	105

-- 112 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
FIGURE 4.2C: Types of Password Attacks – Rainbow Table Password Attack
The rainbow table (bottom table) contains precomputed hashes for many possible
plaintext passwords, sorted alphanumerically. By comparing the hashed passwords
from a compromised database (top table) against this table, an adversary can quickly
find matching hashes and identify corresponding plaintext passwords. This illustrates
the effectiveness of rainbow tables in recovering passwords from unsalted hash
databases through hash comparison.
106 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 113 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
TOPIC 4.3
Protecting Devices
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
4.3.A
Identify managerial controls
related to device security.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
4.3.A.1
An acceptable use policy will describe the
range of activities that are permissible,
prohibited, or required by users on devices
owned by an organization and may include:
§ Prohibiting users from accessing specific
websites or types of websites (e.g., social
media or gaming)
§ Requiring users to keep software updated
§ Allowing users to connect peripheral
devices
§ Prohibiting users from connecting external
drives or media
4.3.A.2
A password policy will detail the requirements
for user passwords within an organization and
may include:
§ A minimum or maximum password length
§ A minimum or maximum amount of time a
user may keep the same password
§ A prohibition of password reuse
§ Rules for password construction (e.g.,
no dictionary words and character set
requirements)
§ A suggestion to use secure password
management tools instead of writing
passwords down
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the impact of
protective risk-management
strategies.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
107

-- 114 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
4.3.A
Identify managerial controls
related to device security.
4.3.A.3
A software installation policy will describe
what (if any) software users are allowed to
install on their devices and usually also a
process for users to request specialized
software they may need to perform their role,
and it may include:
§ A prohibition against users installing
software on their devices
§ A process for users to request new
software needed for their role
§ A list of approved software for users
4.3.B
Explain how anti-malware
software can make a device
more secure.
4.3.B.1
Anti-malware software (sometimes called
antivirus software) has tools to quarantine and
remove malware that can corrupt, spy on, or
destroy a system. Malware contains indicators
that make it detectable; these indicators are
called signatures.
4.3.B.2
Anti-malware software has a database of
malware signatures. It periodically scans the
files on a device and checks to see if any of
the files match any of the signatures in its
database. If there is a match, the software
quarantines and removes the malicious files.
4.3.C
Explain why keeping a device’s
operating system and software
updated makes it more secure.
4.3.C.1
When vulnerabilities in operating systems and
software are found, the vendor or organization
that maintains the operating system software
will fix it and send an update. A small update is
called a patch.
4.3.C.2
Ensuring that a computer’s operating system
and software applications are updated to the
most recent version prevents adversaries from
taking advantage of a known vulnerability.
4.3.D
Configure a host-based firewall.
4.3.D.1
Host-based firewalls allow or deny traffic into
or out of a single device. This provides an extra
layer of security in case a host is connected to
a compromised network.
4.3.D.2
A host-based firewall is software that runs on
a device and follows a set of rules (an ACL)
like a network-based firewall. Firewall rules are
implemented in order, applying the first rule
that matches.
108 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 115 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
4.3.D
Configure a host-based firewall.
4.3.D.3
A host-based firewall can also block specified
types of outbound traffic. Host-based firewalls
should always block ports or services not
needed for a given device.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
A host-based firewall is configured to block
outbound FTP traffic. This prevents an
adversary with remote access to the host from
using FTP to exfiltrate a file to the adversary’s
server.
4.3.D.4
The rules for a host-based firewall can allow
or deny traffic based on source or destination
port or IP address, service, protocol, or
application.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	109

-- 116 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
TOPIC 4.4
Detecting Attacks
on Devices
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
4.4.A
Explain how to detect attacks
against devices.
4.4.A.1
System processes and settings, login
attempts, file download attempts, and user
actions are logged by computing systems.
These logs can be used to reconstruct
circumstances leading up to and during a
cyber incident.
4.4.A.2
An indicator of compromise (IoC) is evidence
that an adversary has compromised a device
or network.
4.4.A.3
Authentication logs (or auth logs) record
every attempted login on a system. Analysis
of authentication logs can reveal attempted
attacks.
4.4.A.4
Host-based IoCs are discovered when
analyzing logs and configuration settings.
Indicators, such as the following, can be found
in authentication logs, user activity logs, and
system configuration files:
§ Unusual files being created or modified
§ Unexpected processes or services
§ Unauthorized changes to system
configuration settings
§ Unauthorized software installation or
update
SUGGESTED SKILLS
3.B
Determine strategies and
methods to detect attacks.
3.D
Detect and classify cyberattacks
by analyzing digital evidence
with and without the support
of AI.
110 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 117 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
4.4.A
Explain how to detect attacks
against devices.
4.4.A.5
File-based IoCs are discovered when analyzing
files on a device. Indicators are usually found in
executable files and can include:
§ Files whose hash matches known malware
§ File names that are known to be created by
a certain piece of malware
§ File paths that are associated with
malicious activity
4.4.A.6
Behavior-based IoCs are discovered when
analyzing logs. Indicators can be found in
authentication logs and access logs and can
include:
§ Multiple failed login attempts
§ Unusual login times or locations
§ Unauthorized attempts to access sensitive
data
§ Attempts to elevate user privileges on a
system
4.4.B
Determine controls for
detecting attacks against a
device.
4.4.B.1
Performance is a criterion for determining
a detection method. Detection tools use
system memory and processing power and
can impact the performance of a device.
Anomaly-based detection tools use more
system resources than signature-based
tools. Signature-based detection is a better
option for devices with less powerful system
resources. Many embedded devices do not
have enough system resources to run any
detection tools on the device.
4.4.B.2
Cost is a criterion for determining a detection
method. Organizations that purchase
detection software need to consider the cost
of purchasing enough software licenses for
the number of devices they need to monitor.
Some organizations purchase an endpoint
detection and response (EDR) service from a
third-party vendor. Although these services
are expensive, they provide a holistic,
unified approach to threat detection for an
organization’s devices; they typically include
a centralized alert platform for monitoring
possible attacks on devices.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	111

-- 118 of 192 --

Securing Devices
UNIT
4
4.4.B
Determine controls for
detecting attacks against a
device.
4.4.B.3
Sensitivity or criticality of the device is a
criterion for determining a detection method.
Devices that store or process sensitive
information or provide critical services are
more likely to be targeted by adversaries and
benefit from a hybrid-detection model to offer
maximum protection, when possible.
4.4.C
Evaluate the impact of a device
detection method.
4.4.C.1
Speed and performance are factors in
evaluating the impact of a detection method.
Signature-based detection is faster than
anomaly-based detection in general, and that
effect is compounded on devices, which often
lack the processing power to effectively run
anomaly-based detection tools. Implementing
resource-intensive detection tools on devices
can degrade device performance.
4.4.C.2
Phase of the attack is a factor in evaluating
the impact of a detection method. To carry
out actions on a device, adversaries must first
bypass a combination of physical- or network-
layer protective, deterrent, and detective
security controls. Detecting and stopping
an attack at the device level can prevent
adversaries from accessing sensitive data or
disrupting critical services.
4.4.C.3
False positives versus ease of bypassing
detection is a factor in evaluating the impact
of a detection method. Most device-level
detection tools are signature-based, and
signature-based detection has a low rate of
false positives. However, signature-based
detection is easier for adversaries to bypass.
4.4.D
Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of password
attacks by analyzing log files.
4.4.D.1
Online password attacks can be detected in
authentication logs. A single user attempting
many wrong passwords is an indicator of an
online password attack. If a user:password
hash database has been compromised, all the
user passwords in the database should be
considered insecure and all users should be
forced to reset their passwords.
4.4.D.2
If an authorized user is logging in from a
different location or IP address than expected,
or at a different time than normal, this can be
an indicator that the user’s password has been
compromised.
112 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 119 of 192 --

Securing Devices UNIT
4
4.4.D
Apply detection techniques to
identify indicators of password
attacks by analyzing log files.
4.4.D.3
An indicator of password spraying is many
users trying to log in within seconds of each
other from one IP address or from unusual IP
addresses.
4.4.D.4
An indicator of credential stuffing is a series
of default user:password combinations being
attempted on a device in quick succession,
often from the same IP address.
4.4.D.5
Offline password attacks can’t be detected,
because the attack takes place on the
adversary’s computer.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	113

-- 120 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 121 of 192 --

AP CYBERSECURITY
UNIT 	5
Securing
Applications
and Data
~30
CLASS PERIODS

-- 122 of 192 --



-- 123 of 192 --

UNIT
5
Securing Applications
and Data
~30 	CLASS PERIODS
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
Developing Understanding
Data is the foundation of the digital world. Every movie or song that is streamed,
every website visited, and every financial transaction made online is recorded as
digital data. Stealing, modifying, or denying access to data is often the end goal
of an adversary. In this unit, students learn how adversaries commonly attack data
and applications. Students learn how to set access controls to limit who has what
type of access to data. They also learn how to use cryptography to protect the
confidentiality and integrity of data both in storage and while it is being transmitted.
Additionally, students learn how adversaries attack applications, what to look for in
logs as evidence of an attack, and some mitigations that can help limit or stop an
attack.
Building Cybersecurity Skills
In this final unit, students practice assessing risk to data and learn about the
vulnerabilities and attacks particular to data. Students learn why some data are
more valuable than others and how the perceived value of the data impacts their risk
assessment. Students also learn how to protect data using tools like cryptography
and access controls. Finally, students practice detecting attacks on data by reviewing
logs for indicators of compromise (IoCs).
117

-- 124 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
Unit Scenarios
The scenarios for this unit are designed to connect the knowledge and skills
students gain to realistic workplace tasks. The scenarios are paired with relevant
student activities. Teachers may use their own scenarios in addition to, or in lieu
of, those provided here.
SCENARIO 5A:
Protecting Sensitive Data
As an employee on the security team of Vitahealth Solutions , a pharmaceutical
company, you have been tasked with protecting the company’s proprietary
research and development (R&D) on its new product Strype. The directories and
files that contain the research are on an air-gapped computer. Only members of
the R&D team and select members of the IT team have access to that computer.
Your task is to secure the research by setting the access controls for the
directories and files.
You will log into the computer that contains the proprietary research and set
access according to the following criteria:
§ All members of the R&D team should have full access to the /RandD directory
while other users should be able to access and read the directory.
§ All members of the R&D team should have full access to the /RandD/
Research directory while other users should have no access to the directory.
§ Only the head researcher should have read, write, and execute access to
the /RandD/Formula directory, the R&D team should have read and execute
access, and everyone else should have no access.
SCENARIO 5B:
Sending Encrypted Messages
You are a security engineer working for LightningGrid, a utility company that
owns power generating plants across the United States. You are working on
a classified project with another security engineer at a plant on the other side
of the country. It is critical that you and your colleague have a method for
communicating securely. You need to use PGP encryption to set up a secure
communication channel.
Your teacher will randomly pair you with another student who will be your partner
for this scenario, and you will each represent one of the security engineers
in the scenario. You will use PGP encryption to establish a secure digital
communication channel with each other.
You will:
§ Use a tool to generate an asymmetric key pair
§ Share your public key with your partner
§ Send your partner an encrypted secret message
§ Receive and decrypt a secret message from your partner
118 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 125 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
UNIT AT A GLANCE
Topic 	Learning Objectives 	Scenario Connections
Class
Periods
5.1 Application
and Data
Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
5.1.A Explain how adversaries can exploit
application and file vulnerabilities to
cause loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction.
5.1.B Explain how application attacks exploit
vulnerabilities.
5.1.C Assess and document risks from
application and data vulnerabilities.
5
5.2 Protecting
Applications
and Data:
Managerial
Controls
and Access
Controls
5.2.A Explain how the state or classification
of data impacts the type and degree of
security applied to that data.
5.2.B Identify managerial controls related to
application and data security.
5.2.C Determine an appropriate access
control model to protect applications
and data.
5.2.D Configure access control settings on a
Linux-based system.
5A Protecting Sensitive Data
Configure access control settings
for directories and files.
7
5.3 Protecting
Stored
Data with
Cryptography
5.3.A Explain how encryption can be used to
protect files.
5.3.B Apply symmetric encryption algorithms
to encrypt and decrypt data.
4
5.4 Asymmetric
Cryptography
5.4.A Determine the appropriate asymmetric
key to use when sending or receiving
encrypted data.
5.4.B Explain why the length of a key impacts
the security of encrypted data.
5.4.C Apply asymmetric encryption
algorithms to encrypt and decrypt data.
5B Sending Encrypted Messages
Generate an asymmetric key pair.
Encrypt a message and send it.
Decrypt a received message.
5
5.5 Protecting
Applications
5.5.A Identify the application security
principles of secure by design and
security by default.
5.5.B Explain how user input sanitization
protects applications.
2
5.6 Detecting
Attacks on
Data and
Applications
5.6.A Explain how to detect attacks on data.
5.6.B Determine controls for detecting
attacks against applications or data.
5.6.C Evaluate the impact of a method for
detecting attacks against an application
or data.
5.6.D Identify whether a file has been altered
by verifying its hash.
5.6.E Apply detection techniques to identify
and report indicators of application
attacks by analyzing log files.
7
119

-- 126 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
TOPIC 5.1
Application and
Data Vulnerabilities
and Attacks
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.1.A
Explain how adversaries
can exploit application and
file vulnerabilities to cause
loss, damage, disruption, or
destruction.
5.1.A.1
An adversary can read any unencrypted files if
they have access to the device or drive storing
the files.
5.1.A.2
Computers have standard users and
administrative users. Administrative users
have access to control system settings and
can typically access any files or applications
on a system. If regular users are given
administrative privileges on a computer,
and an adversary can compromise a user’s
account, then the adversary will have elevated
privileges on the system.
5.1.A.3
When access control settings are weakly
configured, many users often have permission
to view and sometimes even edit files on
a system. Adversaries can take advantage
of weak access control settings to steal or
destroy files or disrupt an application.
5.1.B
Explain how application attacks
exploit vulnerabilities.
5.1.B.1
Applications are programs that run
instructions on computers; they are
executable data. Some applications run locally
on a user’s computer, while other applications,
like web applications, run on a server and are
accessed by users through a network.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
1.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
1.D
Document, with and without the
support of AI, the likelihood and
impact of risks.
120

-- 127 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.1.B
Explain how application attacks
exploit vulnerabilities.
5.1.B.2
Many applications take user input through
open-ended input fields where users can type
characters (e.g., letters, numbers, punctuation).
Developers should include user input checks
in their application, such as numeric input
when asked for a number of items, to ensure
that the user input matches what is expected;
the application should reject input outside
of the expected parameters. This process
of verifying that user input meets expected
criteria before processing it is called data
validation. Applications that fail to validate
user input are vulnerable to injection-type
attacks, where adversaries insert unexpected
character strings in input fields to alter the
behavior of a program.
5.1.B.3
Structured query language (SQL) is a
computer language used to request
information from databases and make
changes to databases or entries in databases.
Applications that query a database using
unvalidated or unsanitized input from users are
vulnerable.
5.1.B.4
An SQL-injection attack places SQL
commands and control characters into a user-
input field in an application, which can lead
to a breach of confidentiality by causing the
application to return more information than it
should, or a breach of integrity by modifying or
deleting data in the database.
5.1.B.5
Websites are written using hypertext markup
language (HTML), and many websites use
Javascript to create dynamic content on
websites or web applications. Because
Javascript commands run in the browser of
the user visiting the website, those commands
can access sensitive data stored in the
browser like usernames, passwords, and
cryptographic keys.
5.1.B.6
A cross site scripting (XSS) attack injects
malicious code into a website that a user’s
browser then executes. The malicious code
can be embedded in a link the user clicks (a
Type I or Reflected XSS attack) or it can be
inserted onto a website through a comment
field, forum post, or visitor log, which would
affect any user visiting that website (a Type II
or Stored XSS attack).
121

-- 128 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.1.B
Explain how application attacks
exploit vulnerabilities.
5.1.B.7
When applications take user input, that input
is written to a buffer. A buffer is a designated
section of computer memory with a fixed
size. If the amount of data the user enters
exceeds the size of the buffer, it can overflow
into adjacent memory locations and overwrite
other parts of the computer’s memory.
5.1.B.8
A buffer overflow attack feeds more data into
memory than was allotted, which can cause
a system to crash or to execute code outside
the scope of a program’s security policy,
effectively allowing the adversary to perform
unauthorized actions on a computer, such as
accessing, modifying, or deleting files.
5.1.B.9
The files that run web applications are stored
in directories on servers. When users access
web applications, their browsers send GET
requests using hypertext transfer protocol
(HTTP). A GET request accesses a file
somewhere in the filesystem of the server.
5.1.B.10
In a directory traversal attack, adversaries
modify URLs and GET requests to attempt to
access sensitive data (e.g., usernames and
passwords) on a server’s file system.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
A web server stores images for a website it
hosts in the /var/www/images/ directory.
An adversary modifies a URL requesting an
image to ../../../etc/passwd. The ..
moves one directory up in the file system;
so the three consecutive .. returns the path
to the root, and from there the adversary
is attempting to access the passwd file
that would return a list of all the authorized
usernames on the device.
5.1.C
Assess and document risks
from application and data
vulnerabilities.
5.1.C.1
Data security risks can involve a compromise
of confidentiality when unauthorized persons
can access sensitive data, integrity when
data can be manipulated or altered from its
intended state, and availability when data can
be destroyed or encrypted to prevent others
from accessing it.
122

-- 129 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.1.C
Assess and document risks
from application and data
vulnerabilities.
5.1.C.2
High risks from data vulnerabilities often
involve highly sensitive data (e.g., data that is
governed by laws or regulations) that could be
compromised through a highly likely exploit.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
The company developing the next jet engine
that will be used by the Air Force in its planes
is storing the technical specifications for the
engine on an unencrypted drive.
5.1.C.3
Moderate risks from data vulnerabilities often
involve sensitive data not having strong
enough encryption or strict enough access
controls.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
A company stores its customers’ PII in
a spreadsheet, and the spreadsheet is
encrypted using a small key.
5.1.C.4
Low risks from data vulnerabilities often
involve less sensitive information being
encrypted with shorter keys or having access
controls that are not strict enough.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An organization’s CEO stores his private
memos to his executive staff on a company
share drive that is unencrypted and has no
access controls.
123

-- 130 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
TOPIC 5.2
Protecting
Applications and Data:
Managerial Controls
and Access Controls
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
5.2.A
Explain how the state or
classification of data impacts
the type and degree of security
applied to that data.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.2.A.1
Organizations implement specific security
controls to comply with legal requirements
based on the types of data they collect, store,
process, and transmit.
5.2.A.2
Data can be classified by their state.
§ Data at rest are stored on a drive. It is
important to protect the physical drive
storing the data from destruction or theft.
Data at rest can also be encrypted so
that if an adversary steals it, they can’t
immediately read the data.
§ Data in transit are being sent from one
device to another. If the data are being
transferred over physical media (e.g.,
cables) it is important to protect the media.
Data in transit can also be encrypted so
that if an adversary intercepts it, they can’t
immediately read the data.
§ Data in use are being processed by
software or a person. Access controls can
be used to limit who or what has the ability
to use data in different ways (e.g., view
or edit). Data must be unencrypted to be
used.
5.2.A.3
Organizations often categorize data
according to their sensitivity and prioritize a
higher degree of security for more sensitive
information.
5.2.A.4
Laws and regulations can require certain types
of data to be stored, transmitted, and handled
according to specific rules.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.C
Evaluate, with and without the
support of AI, the impact of
protective risk-management
strategies.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
124

-- 131 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.2.A
Explain how the state or
classification of data impacts
the type and degree of security
applied to that data.
§ Personally identifiable information (PII)
is any data that allows someone to be
identified and includes (but is not limited
to): name, signature, phone number,
address, biometric data (e.g., fingerprints),
social security number, date of birth, and
email address. The protection of this data
is covered by many laws but most notably
The Privacy Act of 1974 and for children
under the age of 13 the Children’s Online
Privacy Protection Act of 1998.
§ Protected health information (PHI) is any
data related to an individual’s health,
treatment, payment for healthcare at any
time and includes (but is not limited to):
test results, treatment records, hospital
records, doctor visit notes, and health
provider payment records. The protection
of PHI is included in the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
§ Payment card information (PCI) is the data
collected by organizations to process
payments via cards (e.g., credit cards) and
includes the following: name, account
number, expiration date, address, and
CVV code. The protection of this data is
regulated by the Payment Card Industry
Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS).
5.2.A.5
Organizations that collect regulated data will
label them and have policies that comply with
the legal or regulatory requirements for the
safe storage, transmission, and handling of
these data.
5.2.B
Identify managerial controls
related to application and data
security.
5.2.B.1
A cryptography policy will describe the
acceptable encryption protocols and key
parameters for an organization and may
include:
§ A list of encryption algorithms approved
for specific uses
§ Minimum or maximum key lengths
§ Cryptographic key-generation
requirements and parameters
§ Cryptographic key-storage requirements
125

-- 132 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.2.B
Identify managerial controls
related to application and data
security.
5.2.B.2
A web application security policy will outline
the requirements and parameters for testing
and mitigating web application vulnerabilities
in an organization, and it may include:
§ Parameters for when an application is
subject to a security assessment
§ Timelines for remediating vulnerabilities
based on level of risk
§ Parameters for how an application security
assessment is to be carried out (e.g., using
specific tools or according to specific
frameworks)
5.2.C
Determine an appropriate
access control model to
protect applications and data.
5.2.C.1
Access control enforces which users or
applications (called subjects) can access,
modify, add, or remove (called operations)
which files or applications (called objects).
Access control models describe how to
determine which subjects have what type of
access to which objects.
5.2.C.2
Role-based access control (RBAC) assigns
every subject to a role and defines which roles
have which types of access to which objects.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
An example of a role at a company might be
“accountant,” and one type of object could
be the payroll software. Role-based access
could be used to ensure that only subjects who
are assigned to the role of “accountant” have
access to the payroll software object.
5.2.C.3
Rule-based access control (RuBAC) checks a
set of rules to determine what type of access
a subject should have for a specific object
and then allows or denies types of access
based on the rules. This access control model
is typically layered on top of another access
control model.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
There is a rule that prohibits subjects (even
those who would normally have access) from
accessing a certain database (the object)
outside of local working hours. When a subject
attempts to access the database, even if they
are authorized to access it, they will be denied
access if it is outside the time designated by
the rule.
126

-- 133 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.2.C
Determine an appropriate
access control model to
protect applications and data.
5.2.C.4
Discretionary access control (DAC) gives
individual subjects the ability to set the type
of access that other subjects have on objects
they own. In DAC models some subjects are
designated as administrators or super users,
and they have the ability to override the
access controls established by other subjects.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
Bob creates a file (an object) and decides
to give Alice permission to edit the file, to
give Frank permission to view the file only,
and to deny everyone else access to the file
altogether.
5.2.C.5
Mandatory access control (MAC) follows strict
rules for which types of access each subject
level has for objects that are above their level,
at their level, or below their level. Subject
and object levels are assigned by an external
administrator.
5.2.C.6
The Bell-LaPadula model is a MAC model that
is often used by governments and military
organizations to control the security of
information. This model has the following two
important properties:
i. The Simple Security Property states that
subjects may not read objects that are
above their level.
ii. The * (Star) Security Property states that
subjects may not write to objects below
their level.
These rules taken together are often
summarized as “write up, read down” (WURD).
5.2.C.7
The principle of least privilege is the idea
that entities should be given exactly as much
access as they need to perform their function
and no more.
5.2.D
Configure access control
settings on a Linux-based
system.
5.2.D.1
Authorization is when an entity is granted
permission to have a certain type of access to
a resource. Access controls are put in place to
control which users have what types of access
to which data.
127

-- 134 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.2.D
Configure access control
settings on a Linux-based
system.
5.2.D.2
There are three types of access to a file in
Linux that can be set, and they always come in
the following order:
i. Read access allows a user to view the
contents of a file.
ii. Write access allows a user to make
changes to a file.
iii. Execute access allows a user to run a
binary file such as a program.
These are abbreviated rwx, respectively. If a
user only has read and execute permissions
(not write), then it would display as r-x. The -
symbol indicates the absence of that permission.
5.2.D.3
There are three default entities for which
permissions are set and always in this order:
(1) the file owner, (2) the file group, and (3) all
other users. The three sets are displayed with
no spaces (e.g., rwxrwxrwx ).
5.2.D.4
To view the current permission settings for
a file, use the command ls-l , which will
show the current settings for the default
entities. If there is a + symbol at the end
of the permissions, this means that other
permissions have been set for that file and it
can be viewed with the getfacl command.
5.2.D.5
To modify the permission settings for a file,
use the chmod command. This command
can be used with the numeric method or the
symbolic method.
5.2.D.6
To use chmod in the numeric method the
syntax is chmod ### filename.
Each of the three ### represents one of the
three entities mentioned above (the owner, the
group, other nongroup users).
§ The first # = the owner
§ The second # = the group
§ The third # = other nongroup users
The permission for each entity is determined
by adding up the values for the types of
access to be granted:
§ 0 = no permissions
§ 1 = execute
§
§
2 = write
4 = read
128

-- 135 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.2.D
Configure access control
settings on a Linux-based
system.
Therefore 3 sets permission to write and
execute, 5 sets permission to read and
execute, 6 sets permission to read and write,
and 7 sets permission to read, write, and
execute.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
§ The command chmod 750 test would
set the permissions for the owner to read,
write, and execute, for the group to read and
execute, and for everyone else to no access
at all.
§ The command chmod 543 test would
set the permissions for the owner to read
and execute, for the group to read only, and
for everyone else to write and execute.
§ The command chmod 777 test would
set the permissions for all three entities to
read, write, and execute for the file test.
5.2.D.7
To use chmod in the symbolic method
the syntax is chmod entity +(or –)
permission filename.
The entities are the user owner, the group,
and other nongroup users. Each entity is
represented with a single letter.
§ u = user owner
§ g = group
§ o = others
§ a = all
Permission can be either added or removed to
any combination of entities.
§ + = add the permission
§ – = remove the permission
The permissions that can be set are read,
write, and execute.
§ r = read
§ w = write
§ x = execute
Entities and permissions can be combined in a
single command.
To add the read and execute permissions
for the group and user owner for a file called
testfile, the command would be chmod
ug+rx testfile.
129

-- 136 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
FIGURE 5.2A: Access Control Model – Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
FIGURE 5.2B: Access Control Model – Rule-Based Access Control (RuBAC)
130

-- 137 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
FIGURE 5.2C: Access Control Model – Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
FIGURE 5.2D: Access Control Model – Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
131

-- 138 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
TOPIC 5.3
Protecting Stored Data
with Cryptography
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.3.A
Explain how encryption can be
used to protect files.
5.3.A.1
The purpose of cryptography is to hide
information. A cryptographic algorithm defines
a process for encrypting and decrypting
information. Encryption is the process of
hiding the information, and decryption is the
process of reversing the encryption to retrieve
the original information.
5.3.A.2
An encryption algorithm defines a process for
combining the information to be encrypted
with a predefined key. The information to be
encrypted is called the plaintext. The output
of the encryption algorithm is called the
ciphertext.
5.3.A.3
The number of possible keys that can be
used in an encryption algorithm is called the
keyspace. The larger the keyspace, the longer
it will take an adversary to discover the correct
key by random chance.
5.3.A.4
Cryptographic algorithms are classified by
whether they use one key or two keys.
§ Symmetric encryption algorithms use
the same key to encrypt and decrypt
information.
§ Asymmetric encryption algorithms use two
different keys—one to encrypt information
and the other to decrypt information.
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
132

-- 139 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
5.3.A
Explain how encryption can be
used to protect files.
5.3.A.5
Cryptographic algorithms are also classified
by whether they process information one bit at
a time or in fixed-size chunks of bits.
§ Block encryption handles information in
fixed-size chunks called blocks, producing
an output block for each input block.
§ Stream encryption handles input
information continuously, producing
output one element at a time.
5.3.B
Apply symmetric encryption
algorithms to encrypt and
decrypt data.
5.3.B.1
Computer-based encryption algorithms
operate on binary data. The most common
symmetric encryption algorithm is the
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).
AES encryption is used to secure Wi-
Fi transmissions, internet browsing, file
encryption on disks, and hardware-level
encryption on processors.
5.3.B.2
AES is a symmetric key block cipher that
encrypts data in 128-bit blocks (16 bytes).
AES can operate with keys of varying lengths.
Longer keys produce more secure encryption
but require more time to encrypt and decrypt.
5.3.B.3
Symmetric encryption and decryption can
be performed using the command line,
specialized software, or web-based tools.
§ On a command line interface, users can
encrypt or decrypt with OpenSSL.
§ Specialized software like AES Crypt is an
open source tool that can encrypt and
decrypt files.
§ There are many web-based tools for
encrypting and decrypting files.
5.3.B.4
Using OpenSSL in a CLI, a user can encrypt
and decrypt a file using the following
commands (note that the encryption key is
derived from the password provided):
§ To encrypt a file named test with AES
using a 128-bit key, use the command:
openssl enc -aes-128-cbc -e
-in test -k password -out
test.enc
§ To decrypt the encrypted file using the
same key, use the command:
openssl enc -aes-128-cbc -d
-in test.enc -k password -out
text
133

-- 140 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
FIGURE 5.3: Symmetric Encryption Algorithms
Symmetric encryption involves a single key encrypting and decrypting data. This helps
ensure confidentiality between sender and receiver.
134 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 141 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
TOPIC 5.4
Asymmetric
Cryptography
Required Course Content
LEARNING OBJECTIVE 	ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.4.A
Determine the appropriate
asymmetric key to use when
sending or receiving encrypted
data.
5.4.A.1
Asymmetric encryption allows users to
communicate securely without prearranging a
shared secret key.
5.4.A.2
When using asymmetric encryption, each
entity that will be receiving data must first
generate a key pair. Key pairs are binary
strings of equal length that are generated
at the same time through a mathematical
process. One key is designated as the public
key and the other as the private key. The keys
are mathematical inverses of each other—
each key reverses its partner. Either key can
be used to encrypt information, but only the
other key in the key pair will then be able to
decrypt it.
5.4.A.3
Once the receiver generates the key pair,
the private key must be stored securely. If
the private key is exposed, shared, stolen,
corrupted, or compromised the key pair
must be deleted and a new key pair must
be generated, because the security of the
encryption algorithm rests on the security of
the private key. The public key is published for
anyone to view and use.
5.4.A.4
To send information securely to someone, the
sender will use the receiver’s public key to
encrypt the data and send it. Only the receiver
who has the private key will be able to decrypt
and read the information.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.B
Determine layered security
controls that address
vulnerabilities.
2.D
Implement and log mitigations
with and without the support
of AI.
135

-- 142 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
5.4.B
Explain why the length of a
key impacts the security of
encrypted data.
5.4.B.1
Longer keys result in larger keyspaces.
For binary keys, an n-bit length key has a
keyspace of 2n.
5.4.B.2
Using an application to randomly guess an
n-bit length encryption key means that on
average an adversary will be able to guess the
correct key in 2n/2 or 2n 1− guesses.
5.4.B.3
Although longer keys are more secure, they
also require more time to encrypt and decrypt
messages.
5.4.B.4
Computational processing power and
efficiency continue to improve, allowing
software to guess keys faster. Key-length
recommendations for both symmetric
and asymmetric encryption algorithms
are periodically increased to account for
increased processing power.
5.4.B.5
Key-length comparison is only valid when
comparing keys for the same cryptographic
algorithm.
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES
§ An AES 256-bit key is more secure than an
AES 128-bit key.
§ An RSA 4096-bit key is more secure than an
RSA 2048-bit key.
§ RSA and AES keys cannot be directly
compared to one another in determining the
level of security.
5.4.C
Apply asymmetric encryption
algorithms to encrypt and
decrypt data.
5.4.C.1
Common asymmetric encryption algorithms
include RSA and elliptic curve cryptography
(ECC). Asymmetric algorithms are used in
many applications, including digital signatures
and digital certificates.
136 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 143 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
5.4.C
Apply asymmetric encryption
algorithms to encrypt and
decrypt data.
5.4.C.2
As with symmetric encryption, asymmetric
encryption and decryption can be performed
using the command line, specialized software,
or web-based tools.
§ On a command line interface, users can
encrypt or decrypt with OpenSSL.
§ Specialized software like RSA Encryption
Tool is an open source tool that can
encrypt and decrypt files.
§ There are many web-based tools for
encrypting and decrypting files.
5.4.C.3
In a CLI, a user can generate an asymmetric
key pair and encrypt or decrypt files as
necessary.
§ To generate a 2048-bit RSA key pair and
save the key to a file named rsa.pem use
the command:
openssl genrsa -out rsa.pem
2048
§ To extract the public key from rsa.pem
into a file named public.pem, use the
command:
openssl rsa -pubout -in rsa.
pem -outform PEM -out public.
pem
§ To encrypt the file test using RSA
encryption and the key file public.pem,
use the command:
openssl pkeyutl -encrypt
-pubin -inkey public.pem -in
test -out test.enc
§ To decrypt the test.enc file using the
rsa.pem file, run the command:
openssl pkeyutl -decrypt
-inkey rsa.pem -in test.enc
-out test
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	137

-- 144 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
FIGURE 5.4: Asymmetric Encryption Algorithms
Asymmetric encryption involves two keys: a public and a private key. In this
encryption method, data encrypted with the public key can only be decrypted by
the corresponding private key. This helps ensure secure communication and data
integrity.
138 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 145 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
TOPIC 5.5
Protecting
Applications
Required Course Content
SUGGESTED SKILLS
2.A
Identify security controls, and
explain how they mitigate risks.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
5.5.A
Identify the application security
principles of secure by design
and security by default.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.5.A.1
Secure by design is an initiative that
encourages companies to include security in
all phases of product development including
design. When organizations implement secure
by design, security is a design principle not
just a technical feature.
5.5.A.2
Secure by design includes three design
principles:
i. Companies should take ownership of
customer security outcomes. Companies
should build products that meet the
security needs of their customers.
ii. Companies should embrace radical
transparency and accountability. Sharing
relevant security-related product news
and updates quickly increases security for
everyone.
iii. Companies should build organizational
structure and leadership to implement
secure by design. Companies need leaders
who are focused on security and have a
security-first posture.
5.5.A.3
Secure by design includes the concept of
secure by default, which is the idea that security
features for software and devices should be
enabled by default. Devices and software should
be secure to use out of the box, with security
features already enabled.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	139

-- 146 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
5.5.B
Explain how user input
sanitization protects
applications.
5.5.B.1
When users enter input into an application,
the application typically encases that input
in special characters to process it. The
characters that encase the user input are
called control characters and include the
single quote, the double quote, and the
semicolon.
5.5.B.2
When creating a program that takes user input,
programmers should use a function to verify
that user input meets their expected criteria
and does not include any control characters
that could be used to manipulate the system.
This verification function can sanitize user
input by removing potentially malicious
characters, or it can give the user an error and
force the user to provide different input. This
can protect against many application attacks,
including:
§ SQL injection attacks
§ XSS attacks
§ Directory traversal attacks
140 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 147 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
TOPIC 5.6
Detecting Attacks on
Data and Applications
Required Course Content
SUGGESTED SKILLS
3.B
Determine strategies and
methods to detect attacks.
3.D
Detect and classify
cyberattacks by analyzing
digital evidence with and
without the support of AI.
LEARNING OBJECTIVE
5.6.A
Explain how to detect attacks
on data.
ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
5.6.A.1
Devices track and log when data are accessed
and by whom. The process of recording and
monitoring user activities is called accounting.
Analysis of these logs can reveal malicious
activity when an adversary attempts to
access, copy, move, or delete data. Suspicious
activity can include:
§ Accessing files that aren’t typically
accessed
§ Accessing files or applications outside of
a user’s normal patterns (including time of
day, location, and device type)
§ Attempts to delete or copy sensitive files
5.6.A.2
A honeypot is a file that appears as if it
contains valuable data (e.g., credit card
information, PII, passwords), but the data in
the file are fake. A system can alert defenders
if someone attempts to access the honeypot.
Since the honeypot is a fake file, there is no
legitimate reason to be accessing it, and any
attempted access would be an indicator of
malicious activity.
5.6.A.3
Cryptographic hash functions can generate
a digest for data and can reveal if data
have been altered. If a file has changed
unexpectedly, this can be a sign of malicious
activity.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	141

-- 148 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
5.6.B
Determine controls for
detecting attacks against
applications or data.
5.6.C
Evaluate the impact of a
method for detecting attacks
against an application or data.
5.6.B.1
Cost is a criterion in determining detective
controls. Detective controls like honeypots
and using hash values to check data integrity
are inexpensive. Some organizations invest
in third-party data loss prevention (DLP)
services, which monitor data access, usage,
and transmission by users throughout the
organization to detect suspicious activity; DLP
services provide strong detection capabilities
at a higher cost.
5.6.B.2
Sensitivity or criticality of data or applications
is a criterion in determining detective controls.
More sensitive or critical data or applications
are more likely targets of an adversary and
should be monitored more closely.
5.6.B.3
Classification of data is a criterion in
determining detective controls. Data that
have been classified as private, educational,
healthcare, or financial often have legal
or regulatory detection and monitoring
requirements.
5.6.C.1
To operate at an effective speed, log
analysis needs to be augmented with
some automation. Honeypots offer near
instantaneous detection capabilities.
5.6.C.2
Some DLP tools, honeypots, and realtime
automated log analysis provide alerts as an
attack is happening. These tools allow for
a prompt response that can stop an attack
before it does more harm. Retrospective log
analysis and the use of cryptographic hashes
to verify data integrity identify attacks after
they have occurred.
5.6.C.3
False negatives can occur in applications and
data attack detection. Cryptographic hash
functions only detect if data have been altered.
An adversary could view and steal data
without altering it, and a cryptographic hash
function would not detect this. Honeypots
cannot detect adversaries that do not attempt
to access them.
142 	AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 149 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data UNIT
5
5.6.D
Identify whether a file has been
altered by verifying its hash.
5.6.E
Apply detection techniques to
identify and report indicators
of application attacks by
analyzing log files.
5.6.D.1
Cryptographic hash functions can help
identify changes in a file because they are
repeatable: the same input always produces
the same output for a given hash function.
5.6.D.2
Hashes can be calculated using the command
line on a computer, a website, or specialized
software.
§ In Windows Powershell, if a user wanted
to generate the SHA256 hash for a file
named testfile, they would use the
command:
Get-FileHash testfile
-Algorithm SHA256
§ In BASH the same could be accomplished
with the command:
sha256sum testfile
§ In zsh, the common command line terminal
on Apple computers, this could be
accomplished with the command:
shasum -a 256 testfile
5.6.D.3
A file can be hashed and its hash output
recorded. Then it can be hashed again later,
and the second hash output can be compared
to the previous hash output for the same file. If
a file’s hash changes, then the file was altered
between when the first and second hashes
were generated.
5.6.E.1
SQL injection attacks can be detected by
reviewing application and server logs of user
input for SQL control words and symbols such
as:
§ A single or double quote character:
`` , `
§ Boolean conditions like OR 1=1
§ A double dash (which indicates a comment
in SQL): --
§ SQL control words (always in capital
letters) like WHERE, IN, FROM
5.6.E.2
XSS attacks can be detected by reviewing
user input for suspicious tags, particularly the
<script>...</script> tag.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents 	143

-- 150 of 192 --

Securing Applications and Data
UNIT
5
144
5.6.E
Apply detection techniques to
identify and report indicators
of application attacks by
analyzing log files.
5.6.E.3
For web applications, buffer overflows can
be detected by checking the amount of data
the user is sending to the web application in
their request. The fields commonly checked
are the URL length, cookie length, query string
length, and total request length. Long strings
in any of these fields can be an indicator of an
attempted buffer overflow attack.
5.6.E.4
Directory traversal attacks can be detected
by reviewing application and server logs.
HTTP GET requests that include paths
with sequences of ../ are indicators of an
adversary attempting a directory traversal.
AP Cybersecurity · Course Framework 	return to contents

-- 151 of 192 --

Exam
Information
AP CYBERSECURITY

-- 152 of 192 --

146
Exam Overview
The AP Cybersecurity Exam assesses student understanding of the skills and
learning objectives outlined in the course framework. The exam is 2 hours
and 10 minutes long and includes 60 multiple-choice questions and 1
free-response question.
Number of
Questions
Exam
Weighting	Section 	Question Type 	Timing
I 	Multiple-Choice Questions 	60 	70% 	80 Minutes
II 	Free-Response Questions 	1 	30% 	50 Minutes
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 153 of 192 --

How Student Learning
Is Assessed on the
AP Exam
Section I: Multiple-Choice
The multiple-choice section of the AP Cybersecurity Exam includes 60 multiple-
choice questions. All five units of the course are assessed in the multiple-choice
section of the AP Cybersecurity Exam. The assessment is organized around
course skills with the following weighting.
Units of Instruction
Approximate Exam Weighting
for Multiple-Choice Section
Skill Category 1: Analyze Risk 	25–40%
Skill Category 2: Mitigate Risk 	25–40%
Skill Category 3: Detect Attacks 	25–40%
Section II: Free-Response
The second section of the AP Cybersecurity Exam includes one free-response
question.
Device Security Analysis will provide students with several simulated sources
about a single digital device. Sources may include security policies, firewall
configurations, file-system permissions, and log files. The question will assess
students’ ability to analyze the provided sources to identify security issues,
detect evidence of attacks, describe how configuration or permission changes
would affect the device and users, and evaluate how security controls, such as
firewalls or automated systems, influence network traffic and device behavior.
Students will be expected to cite evidence from the provided sources and
explain their reasoning when describing attacks, permission settings, or the
impact of policy or configuration modifications. The suggested time for this
question is 50 minutes. Skill Categories 2 and 3 are assessed.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	147

-- 154 of 192 --

148
Task Verbs Used
in Free-Response
Questions
The following task verbs are commonly used in free-response questions:
Identify: Provide information about cybersecurity concepts or evidence from
the given sources.
Explain: Provide reasons that support a solution or that account for how an
outcome occurs, using specific evidence to validate your conclusion.
Describe: Provide information about a cybersecurity process or outcome.
Determine: Using the given sources, provide a specific result by applying
appropriate criteria or reasoning.
Write: Express in print form a proper command that has the indicated effect.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 155 of 192 --

Sample Exam
Questions
The sample exam questions that follow illustrate the relationship between the
course framework and the AP Cybersecurity Exam and serve as examples of the
types of questions that appear on the exam. After the sample questions is a table
that shows which skill(s) and learning objective(s) each question assesses. The
table also provides the answers to the multiple-choice questions.
Section I: Multiple-Choice Questions
The following are examples of the kinds of multiple-choice questions found on the
exam.
1. 	A cybersecurity analyst recently completed a review of a hotel’s security.
Consider the following information from their report.
§ The hotel’s Wi-Fi extends to the parking area, allowing outsiders
potential access to the network.
§ Open network ports in the conference center connect to the hotel’s
internal network and could enable spoofing of a legitimate device.
§ Guest feedback tablets in the lobby use a shared Wi-Fi network,
exposing nonsensitive customer satisfaction data.
§ Model numbers of printers and the firmware versions the printers are
running are visible on the internal network, revealing some information
about devices on the network.
Which of the following risks would the cybersecurity analyst most likely
document as a high risk?
(A) The hotel’s Wi-Fi extending to the parking area
(B) Open network ports in the conference center
(C) Guest feedback tablets using a shared Wi-Fi network
(D) The model numbers of printers and the firmware versions the printers
are running being visible
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	149

-- 156 of 192 --

150
2. 	A school district wants to ensure that only the school principal (kmurray)
can edit faculty evaluation reports and to limit permissions for everyone
else. The district’s system administrator wants to set the following
permission for the file Oak_Park_HS, which contains the faculty
evaluations.
-rw-r----- kmurray staff 2048 Sep 18 10:45 Oak_Park_HS
Which of the following commands can be used to set the permissions
shown?
(A) chmod 444 Oak_Park_HS
(B) chmod 640 Oak_Park_HS
(C) chmod 740 Oak_Park_HS
(D) chmod 777 Oak_Park_HS
3. 	Consider the following email.
From: Management
To: Security Manager
_________________________________________________
Subject: New Access Rules for Transaction System
Thank you for implementing access restrictions on our internal
applications.
We are now interested in applying additional security rules that
automatically limit user access based on specific conditions. For
example, access to the transaction system should only be allowed
during business hours and from devices connected to the corporate
network.
Thanks!
Which of the following access control models best meets the request in the
email?
(A) DAC
(B) MAC
(C) RBAC
(D) RuBAC
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 157 of 192 --

4. 	A network technician is unable to access a server using port 443 from a
machine with an IP address of 192.168.45.37.
Consider the following access control list (ACL) for the server’s firewall.
Rule Number 	Allow/Deny 	Direction 	Protocol 	Port 	Source
1 	Allow 	Inbound 	TCP 	22 	ALL
2 	Allow 	Inbound 	TCP 	80 	ALL
3 	Deny 	Inbound 	TCP 	443 	192.168.0.0 -
192.168.255.255
4 	Allow 	Inbound 	ICMP 	ALL 	ALL
5 	Allow 	Inbound 	TCP 	3306 	ALL
6 	Deny 	Inbound 	TCP 	3389 	ALL
7 	Allow 	Inbound 	TCP 	443 	ALL
8 	Allow 	Inbound 	TCP 	587 	ALL
9 	Deny 	Inbound 	TCP 	8140 	192.168.45.0 -
192.168.45.255
10 	Deny 	Inbound 	ALL 	ALL 	ALL
Which of the following changes to the firewall would allow the network
technician to access the server?
(A) Swap firewall rule 1 with firewall rule 10
(B) Swap firewall rule 3 with firewall rule 4
(C) Swap firewall rule 3 with firewall rule 7
(D) Swap firewall rule 4 with firewall rule 7
5. 	A system administrator runs two hashing functions on four files. Consider
the following outputs for the two hashing functions.
Function 1 outputs
file1.txt - 8d8e115e5ebc50c8e03930beac6802a94ef4f36ab
file2.txt - 79a7d08081d12ecf123d63845e38c14c09956ee79
file3.txt - 02db6aefd093c317f8cf78a2fbe52a31b58a6bc5e
file4.txt - bcd3cf9d8527f711031d0d908d84cbb0df97ce90b
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	151

-- 158 of 192 --

152
Function 2 outputs
file1.txt - 804537a7adfa4e1bce4d72d0b212a80af2dae3a5e
file2.txt - ba429665c8b95d05a963ee89fded2c7f18892d13e
file3.txt - 804537a7adfa4e1bce4d72d0b212a80af2dae3a5e
file4.txt - 7fa2901ebbb731eb283487afc033e45dae210a89e
Which of the following statements is supported by the file hashes?
(A) The files file1.txt and file3.txt are exact copies of each other.
(B) Function 1 is more secure than Function 2.
(C) Function 1 and Function 2 are the same hashing function.
(D) The files file1.txt and file3.txt have a collision in one hashing
function.
6. 	The security manager at a hospital is planning to upgrade the hospital’s
physical security system to ensure that only authorized personnel can
access areas containing sensitive medical equipment and patient records.
Because these areas require a high level of security, the manager wants an
authentication method that is unique to each individual and extremely
difficult for an adversary to duplicate or spoof. Which of the following
authentication methods is best suited for these areas?
(A) Authentication token
(B) Password
(C) Retina scan
(D) Access card
7. 	Which of the following best describes how offline password attacks work?
(A) Adversaries attempt user:password combinations in an active
authentication portal.
(B) Adversaries intercept communication as it travels across a network and
read the password in transit.
(C) Adversaries exploit weak access controls to directly retrieve plaintext
passwords stored in a database.
(D) Adversaries use automated tools to hash many potential passwords and
compare them to a captured hash.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 159 of 192 --

Questions 8 through 10 refer to the following.
Consider the following email that was identified and reported as a phishing
attempt.
From: Human Resources
To: All Employees
_________________________________________________
Subject: Final Reminder — Deadline Today!
Our records indicate that your employee profile is incomplete. In order to
remain in compliance with company-wide HR standards, all staff must con-
firm their personal information by the end of the day. Failure to respond by
this deadline may result in suspension of payroll access until your profile is
verified.
Please note: Over 92% of employees have already completed this verifica-
tion, and you are among the last to finalize your record.
To confirm your employee file, reply to this email with the following details:
1. Personal phone number
2. Pet’s name (for verification)
3. Date of birth
We appreciate your cooperation in keeping our records accurate and ensur-
ing continued access to employee services.
Thank you,
Human Resources
8. 	Which of the following shows how the email uses urgency to pressure the
recipient into responding?
(A) The recipient is warned that they must confirm their personal
information by the end of the day.
(B) The recipient is warned that failure to comply could result in payroll
suspension.
(C) The recipient is encouraged to help human resources keep their records
accurate.
(D) The recipient is told that the message comes from a trusted internal
department.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	153

-- 160 of 192 --

154
9. 	How does the email’s claim that “Over 92% of employees have already
completed the verification” attempt to pressure the recipient into responding
to the email?
(A) By framing the request as routine HR communication that seems safe,
showing the use of familiarity
(B) By implying that the opportunity to comply is limited and may soon be
lost, showing the use of scarcity
(C) By presenting the request as coming from those in power and
intimidating the recipient, showing the use of authority
(D) By applying social pressure and making the recipient believe most
coworkers have already acted, showing the use of consensus
10. Which of the following is the most likely impact if the recipient responds to
this email with the requested information?
(A) An adversary could use the recipient’s personal details to impersonate
them.
(B) An adversary could use the recipient’s device as a foothold and move
laterally on the network compromising other devices.
(C) An adversary could infect the recipient’s device with malicious code
hidden in the reply email.
(D) An adversary could disrupt the entire payroll system by disabling access
for all employees.
11. A natural gas company’s help desk receives reports from employees that the
company’s website is intermittently crashing when they try to log in. The
cybersecurity analyst reviews the server’s access logs and finds the following
entries.
[22/Oct/2025:10:11:02] "GET /index.html HTTP/1.1" 200 4521
[22/Oct/2025:10:11:07] "GET /about.html HTTP/1.1" 200 3890
[22/Oct/2025:10:11:10] "GET ../../../../etc/passwd HTTP/1.1" 403 721
[22/Oct/2025:10:11:12] "GET ../../../../etc/shadow HTTP/1.1" 403 654
Which of the following application attacks is indicated in the log file?
(A) Buffer overflow attack
(B) Cross site scripting attack
(C) Directory traversal attack
(D) SQL injection attack
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 161 of 192 --

12. The system administrator at a high school receives an alert that there
may have been multiple unauthorized login attempts to the school’s
online grading system. To investigate, the administrator decides to review
the authentication logs. Which of the following best describes how
authentication logs can be used to determine whether unauthorized login
attempts have occurred?
(A) The logs record which password was used in each login attempt, which
allows the administrator to verify account ownership.
(B) The logs record all login activity, which allows the administrator to
reconstruct when and how login attempts occurred.
(C) The logs record the location of each user attempting to log in, which
allows the administrator to identify login attempts from other
geographic regions.
(D) The logs record the type of device attempting to log in, which allows the
administrator to block unauthorized devices.
13. The network administrator for a manufacturing facility has implemented
a signature-based network detection system. Which of the following is
a potential impact of using this network detection method instead of
anomaly-based detection?
(A) More false negative alerts
(B) Higher operating costs
(C) Slower detection time
(D) More alert fatigue
14. Consider the following lines from a log file.
2025-09-25 08:01:14 ARP Reply: 192.168.1.13 is-at 00:01:5e:00:fc:16
2025-09-25 09:14:15 ARP Reply: 192.168.1.13 is-at 00:3b:cc:5e:ee:01
Which of the following attack types is indicated in the log file?
(A) ARP poisoning attack
(B) DNS poisoning attack
(C) Evil-twin attack
(D) MAC flooding attack
15. Which of the following best describes the length of a cryptographic hash
function output?
(A) The length of the output is longer than the input due to the hashing
process.
(B) The length of the output is fixed regardless of the length of the input.
(C) The length of the output varies based on the length of the input.
(D) The length of the output is shorter than the length of the input.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	155

-- 162 of 192 --

156
16. A state’s National Guard base is documenting cybersecurity risks from
physical vulnerabilities. Which of the following would be classified as a
moderate risk?
(A) An unlocked trailer containing non-networked office equipment that
cannot be used to access sensitive systems
(B) A locked warehouse with noncritical computers that could be a
foothold to access other network resources
(C) A publicly accessible touchscreen directory for visitors that contains no
sensitive data and is unlikely to be exploited
(D) A main server room that contains sensitive systems and information
and does not have sufficiently restricted or controlled access
Questions 17 through 20 refer to the following.
Consider the following article.
Small Town Bank Disrupts Attempted Cyber Attack on Customer
Database
Fairgrove Community Bank, a local financial institution serving resi-
dents of central Kentucky, reported that it successfully stopped a cyber
intrusion attempt earlier this week aimed at its customer database.
The attack was detected on Tuesday afternoon when automated security
systems flagged unusual database queries originating from the bank’s
online loan application form. Investigators determined that the form was
being used to input malicious code.
“One of the strings the adversary submitted included ‘ OR ‘1‘=‘1‘;-
-, ” said James Holloway, a network administrator at Fairgrove Commu-
nity Bank. “That’s a common trick pulled from online tutorials.”
Holloway said the attacker did not succeed in accessing any customer
data, but the attempt revealed a flaw in the bank’s web application.
Fairgrove Community Bank’s security team has since patched the vul-
nerability. No data was compromised, and banking operations continued
without interruption.
“This wasn’t some advanced adversary,” Holloway added. “They were
copying code from the internet and testing to see if anything would
work. But even simple attacks like this can work if we don’t implement
best practices.”
Fairgrove Community Bank says it is conducting a full audit of its
customer-facing applications to ensure proper protections are in place.
17. Which of the following best describes the adversary in this scenario?
(A) Cyberterrorist
(B) Script kiddie
(C) State actor
(D) Insider
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 163 of 192 --

18. Which of the following types of attacks occurred when the adversary
submitted a string that included ‘ OR ‘1‘=‘1‘;--?
(A) SQL injection attack
(B) Buffer overflow attack
(C) Cross site scripting attack
(D) Directory traversal attack
19. Which of the following security controls would most likely prevent an attack
like this in the future?
(A) Encryption
(B) Stateful firewall
(C) Input sanitization
(D) Access control list
20. Which of the following best explains how the adversary attempted
to manipulate the bank’s customer database through the online loan
application form?
(A) When user input is fed into a server’s file system, HTTP requests can
access sensitive data.
(B) When user input contains executable scripts, those scripts can run in
the user’s browser and access sensitive data.
(C) When user input exceeds the size of the designated memory, it can
allow the adversary to access, modify, and delete files.
(D) When user input from a web form is fed directly into a database query,
an adversary can inject control characters that can allow an adversary to
view or modify the contents of a database.
21. An organization only allows their users to log into a system if they are
physically in one of the following time zones (a time zone is a region where
everyone uses the same clock time).
§ Eastern time zone
§ Central time zone
§ Mountain time zone
§ Pacific time zone
Which of the following authentication factors is being used to verify the
identity of the users?
(A) Biometric factor
(B) Knowledge factor
(C) Location factor
(D) Possession factor
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	157

-- 164 of 192 --

158
22. A hospital’s security manager has implemented an automated network
security tool with the following functions.
§ The tool analyzes network traffic for signs of malicious activity so the
security team can quickly spot potential threats.
§ The tool generates an alert when suspicious or malicious traffic is
detected because the hospital wants to be notified right away if an attack
is attempted.
§ The tool does not take direct action to block or stop the traffic itself
because the hospital wants administrators to decide how to respond to
threats.
Which of the following security systems did the security manager
implement?
(A) Data loss prevention system
(B) Network intrusion prevention system
(C) Network intrusion detection system
(D) Security information and event management system
Section II: Free-Response Question
The following is an example of the free-response question found on the exam.
Device Security Analysis
The following sources all come from the same device and are captured in a risk
assessment for this device.
Source 1
The device’s IP address is 192.168.1.10.
Device Firewall Settings
Rule
Number 	Action 	Source 	Destination 	Direction
Port
Number 	Protocol
1 	Deny 	172.45.66.184 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	22 	SSH
2 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	21 	FTP
3 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	80 	HTTP
4 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	445 	SMB
5 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	443 	HTTPS
6 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	22 	SSH
7 	Allow 	172.45.66.184 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	3306 	MySQL
8 	Allow 	ALL 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	3389 	RDP
9 	Allow 	192.168.1.50 	192.168.1.10 	Inbound 	5900 	VNC
10 	Deny 	ALL 	ALL 	Inbound 	ALL 	ALL
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 165 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	159
Source 2
sudo tail -n 30 /var/log/app/network_app.log
1 - Nov 10 09:00:11 ubuntu sudo: jprice : TTY=pts/0 ;
PWD=/home/jprice ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/
less/var/log/syslog
2 - Nov 10 09:00:15 ubuntu sudo: pam_unix(sudo:
session): session opened for user root by
jprice(uid=1000)
3 - Nov 10 09:00:35 ubuntu apt-get[1345]: Get:1
http://archive.ubuntu.com jammy InRelease [265 kB]
4 - Nov 10 09:00:46 ubuntu apt-get[1345]: Get:2
http://security.ubuntu.com jammy-security InRelease
[110 kB]
5 - Nov 10 09:00:55 ubuntu apt-get[1345]: Fetched
375 kB in 19s (19.7 kB/s)
6 - Nov 10 09:01:00 ubuntu apt-get[1345]: Reading
package lists... Done
7 - Nov 10 09:01:01 ubuntu sudo: pam_unix(sudo:
session):
session closed for user root
8 - Nov 10 09:02:14 ubuntu jprice: executed command:
‘ufw status verbose‘
9 - Nov 10 09:02:14 ubuntu jprice: executed command:
‘systemctl status apache2‘
10- Nov 10 09:02:16 ubuntu jprice: executed command:
‘tail –n /var/log/auth.log‘
11 - Nov 10 09:03:10 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘systemctl status apache2‘
12 - Nov 10 09:03:35 ubuntu systemd[1]: Starting
Daily apt download activities...
13 - Nov 10 09:03:36 ubuntu systemd[1]: Finished
Daily apt download activities.
14 - Nov 10 09:04:00 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘ss -tuln‘
15 - Nov 10 09:04:01 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘cat/etc/ufw/user.rules‘
16 - Nov 10 09:05:11 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘journalctl -xe‘
17 - Nov 10 09:05:32 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘df -h‘
18 - Nov 10 09:05:50 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘du -sh/var/log‘

-- 166 of 192 --

160
19 - Nov 10 09:06:02 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘top -n 1‘
20 - Nov 10 09:06:33 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘curl -I http://localhost‘
25 - Nov 10 09:07:45 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘ip addr‘
26 - Nov 10 09:07:47 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘netstat - tulnp‘
27 - Nov 10 09:08:10 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘ufw status verbose‘
28 - Nov 10 09:08:11 ubuntu systemd[1]: Reloading
firewall rules (ufw.service)...
29 - Nov 10 09:08:11 ubuntu systemd[1]: Reloaded
firewall rules (ufw.service).
30 - Nov 10 09:08:20 ubuntu jprice: executed
command: ‘exit‘
Source 3
sudo tail -n 30 /var/log/auth.log
1 - Nov 10 14:11:43 ubuntu sshd[1123]: Server
listening on 0.0.0.0 port 22.
2 - Nov 10 14:11:43 ubuntu sshd[1123]: Server
listening on :: port 22.
3 - Nov 10 14:21:01 ubuntu vsftpd[2184]: Failed login
for invalid user admin from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
4 - Nov 10 14:21:02 ubuntu vsftpd[2186]: Failed login
for invalid user root from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
5 - Nov 10 14:21:03 ubuntu vsftpd[2188]: Failed login
for invalid user test from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
6 - Nov 10 14:21:04 ubuntu vsftpd[2190]: Failed login
for invalid user guest from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
7 - Nov 10 14:21:05 ubuntu vsftpd[2192]: Failed login
for invalid user ubuntu from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents
21 - Nov 10 09:06:33 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session): session opened for user root
by jprice(uid=1000)
22 - Nov 10 09:06:34 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session): session closed for user root
23 - Nov 10 09:07:01 ubuntu CRON[1773]:
pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root
by (uid=0)
24 - Nov 10 09:07:01 ubuntu CRON[1773]:
pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root

-- 167 of 192 --

8 - Nov 10 14:21:06 ubuntu vsftpd[2194]: Failed login
for invalid user deploy from 203.0.113.25 port 21 ftp
9 - Nov 10 14:21:07 ubuntu vsftpd[2196]: Failed
login for invalid user support from 203.0.113.25
port 21 ftp
10 - Nov 10 14:21:08 ubuntu vsftpd[2198]: Failed
login for invalid user admin1 from 203.0.113.25 port
21 ftp
11 - Nov 10 14:21:09 ubuntu vsftpd[2200]: Failed
login for invalid user oracle from 203.0.113.25 port
21 ftp
12 - Nov 10 14:21:10 ubuntu vsftpd[2202]: Failed
login for invalid user ftp from 203.0.113.25 port 21
ftp
13 - Nov 10 14:22:14 ubuntu sshd[2234]: Connection
closed by authenticating user jprice 192.168.1.50
port 22 [preauth]
14 - Nov 10 14:22:15 ubuntu sshd[2234]: Accepted
password for jprice from 192.168.1.50 port 22 ssh2
22 - Nov 10 14:30:17 ubuntu kernel: [UFW BLOCK]
IN=eth0 OUT= SRC=203.0.113.25 DST=192.168.1.10
PROTO=TCP PORT=25 SYN
23 - Nov 10 14:30:18 ubuntu sshd[2369]: Failed
password for invalid user user from 203.0.113.25
port 22 ssh2
24 - Nov 10 14:30:18 ubuntu sshd[2370]: Received
disconnect from 203.0.113.25 port 49151:11: Bye Bye
[preauth]
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	161
15 - Nov 10 14:22:15 ubuntu sshd[2234]:
pam_unix(sshd:session): session opened for user
jprice by (uid=0)
16 - Nov 10 14:25:47 ubuntu sudo: jprice : TTY=pts/0 ;
PWD=/home/jprice ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/apt
update
17 - Nov 10 14:25:47 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session): session opened for user root
by jprice(uid=1000)
18 - Nov 10 14:25:48 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session):session closed for user root
19 - Nov 10 14:28:02 ubuntu sshd[2331]: Connection
closed by 203.0.113.25 [preauth]
20 - Nov 10 14:29:01 ubuntu CRON[2345]:
pam_unix(cron:session): session opened for user root
by (uid=0)
21 - Nov 10 14:29:01 ubuntu CRON[2345]:
pam_unix(cron:session): session closed for user root

-- 168 of 192 --

162
Source 4
25 - Nov 10 14:30:18 ubuntu kernel: [UFW BLOCK]
IN=eth0 OUT= SRC=203.0.113.25 DST=192.168.1.10
PROTO=TCP PORT=77 SYN
26 - Nov 10 14:31:55 ubuntu systemd-logind[99]: New
session 7 of user jprice.
27 - Nov 10 14:31:55 ubuntu systemd: Started Session
7 of user jprice.
28 - Nov 10 14:31:55 ubuntu sudo: jprice : TTY=pts/0 ;
PWD=/home/jprice ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/
journalctl -xe
sudo tail -n 30 /var/log/nginx/access_log
1 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:14
-0500] "GET/index.html HTTP/1.1" 200 4212 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
2 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:15
-0500] "GET /assets/css/style.css HTTP/1.1" 200 1024
"-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
3 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:15
-0500] "GET /assets/js/main.js HTTP/1.1" 200 2876
"-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
4 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:16
-0500] "GET /images/logo.png HTTP/1.1" 200 2048 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
5 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:17
-0500] "GET /about.html HTTP/1.1" 200 3198 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
6 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:18
-0500] "GET /contact.html HTTP/1.1" 200 2951 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
7 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:20
-0500] "POST /contact_form HTTP/1.1" 200 87
"https://example.local/contact.html" "Mozilla/5.0
(Ubuntu)"
8 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:02:21
-0500] "GET /dashboard HTTP/1.1" 200 4981 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents
29 - Nov 10 14:31:55 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session): session opened for user root
by jprice(uid=1000)
30 - Nov 10 14:31:56 ubuntu sudo:
pam_unix(sudo:session): session closed for user root

-- 169 of 192 --

9 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:03:10 -0500]
"GET /api/user/profile?id=12 HTTP/1.1" 200 614 "-"
"curl/7.81.0"
10 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:03:11
-0500] "GET /api/data/list HTTP/1.1" 200 1187 "-"
"curl/7.81.0"
11 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:03:12 -0500]
"POST /api/user/update HTTP/1.1" 200 152 "-"
"curl/7.81.0"
12 - 10.0.0.5 - admin [10/Nov/2025:09:04:01
-0500] "GET /admin/login HTTP/1.1" 200 4329 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0)"
13 - 10.0.0.5 - admin [10/Nov/2025:09:04:02 -0500]
"POST /admin/login HTTP/1.1" 302 112 "https://
example.local/admin/login" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT
10.0)"
14 - 10.0.0.5 - admin [10/Nov/2025:09:04:03 -0500]
"GET /admin/dashboard HTTP/1.1" 200 6275 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0)"
15 - 203.0.113.45 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:04:11 -0500]
"GET ../../../../etc/passwd HTTP/1.1" 400 234 "-"
"curl/7.68.0"
16 - 203.0.113.45 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:04:12 -0500]
"GET ../../../etc/shadow HTTP/1.1" 403 312 "-"
"curl/7.68.0"
17 - 203.0.113.45 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:04:13 -0500]
"GET ../../../var/www/html/config.php.bak HTTP/1.1"
404 198 "-" "curl/7.68.0"
18 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:04:15 -0500]
"GET /api/status HTTP/1.1" 200 94 "-" "curl/7.81.0"
19 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:04:16
-0500] "GET /logout HTTP/1.1" 302 51 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
20 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:04:17
-0500] "GET /login.html HTTP/1.1" 200 3811 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
21 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:00
-0500] "GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1" 200 428 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
22 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:22
-0500] "GET /docs/index.html HTTP/1.1" 200 2491 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
23 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:05:23 -0500]
"GET /api/docs HTTP/1.1" 200 682 "-" "curl/7.81.0"
24 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:25
-0500] "GET /help HTTP/1.1" 200 4122 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	163

-- 170 of 192 --

164
Source 5
25 - 192.168.1.55 - - [10/Nov/2025:09:05:26 -0500]
"GET /api/user/profile?id=14 HTTP/1.1" 200 637 "-"
"curl/7.81.0"
26 - 10.0.0.5 - admin [10/Nov/2025:09:05:27 -0500]
"GET /admin/settings HTTP/1.1" 200 5214 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0)"
27 - 10.0.0.5 - admin [10/Nov/2025:09:05:28
-0500] "POST /admin/update HTTP/1.1" 200 164 "-"
"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0)"
28 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:29
-0500] "GET /assets/js/analytics.js HTTP/1.1" 200
1193 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
29 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:30
-0500] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 4231 "-" "Mozilla/5.0
(Ubuntu)"
30 - 192.168.1.50 - jprice [10/Nov/2025:09:05:31
-0500] "GET /images/banner.jpg HTTP/1.1" 200 3087
"-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Ubuntu)"
ls -l /home/jprice/Documents
-rw-r--r-- 1 jprice jprice 	2143 Nov 08 	09:15 	report.txt
-rw------- 1 jprice jprice 	1024 Nov 02 	09:01 	secrets.key
-rwxr-xr-x 	1 jprice 	jprice 	8576 Nov 	10 	11:02 	backup.sh
-r--r----- 	1 jprice 	admin 	3421 Nov 	06 	11:53 	config.cfg
-rw-rw-r-- 	1 jprice 	devteam 	5012 Nov 	10 	09:04 	notes.md
-rwx------ 1 jprice jprice 	7744 Nov 10 	06:17 	deploy_script
-rw-r----- 	1 jprice 	admin 	2088 Nov 	09 	09:36 	database.ini
-rwxrwx--- 1 jprice devteam 	9281 Nov 04 	01:27 	run_tests.sh
-rw-r--rw- 1 jprice shared 	3999 Nov 01 	12:08 	public_data.csv
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 171 of 192 --

Source 6
Acceptable Use Policy
Required Activities:
§ Users must keep the operating system and installed software up to date.
Permitted Activities:
§ Users may connect peripheral devices such as keyboards, mice, monitors,
and printers as needed for daily work.
Prohibited Activities:
§ Users may not connect external drives, USB storage devices, or other
removable media unless explicitly authorized.
§ Users may not modify system configurations, security settings, or access
controls without authorization.
§ Users may not access social media websites on this device.
Device Security Analysis
Use the given information to respond to parts A, B, C, D, and E. Label any subparts
(e.g., i and ii) that may be present.
Part A
Consider the policy for the device in Source 6.
i. Explain how one part of the policy helps protect the device.
ii. Explain how one rule in the current policy could be modified to make the
device more secure. Include a specific example in your response.
Part B
In the authorization log, there is evidence of a password attack in rows 3–12.
i. Describe the evidence in the log file that indicates a password attack.
Include specific entries from the log file in your response.
ii. Identify the IP address of the adversary.
Part C
Consider all the sources from the device.
i.
ii. Other than removing all permissions from all users, describe one way
the permission settings for one file on the system could be configured to
restrict access for some users on the device. Include the name of the file in
your response.
iii. Using the explanation from part C (ii), write one or more chmod
commands that set the permissions described.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	165
Explain how the permission settings for one file in the
/home/jprice/Documents directory determine the level of access for
that file for the owner, group, and all other users on the system. Include the
name of the file in your response.

-- 172 of 192 --

166
Part D
Consider all the sources from the device.
i. Explain how one connection attempt on the device was blocked by the
device’s firewall. Include evidence from a log file in your response.
ii. Other than allowing all traffic for all services, describe a modification to
one firewall rule that would allow the connection attempt identified in
part D (i).
iii. Other than allowing the connection attempt identified in part D (i),
describe one impact of your modification from part D (ii) on incoming or
outgoing network traffic on the device.
Part E
Apart from the password attack identified in part B, there is evidence of another
attack on the device. Consider all the sources from the device.
i. Determine the type of attack evidenced in a log file.
ii. Describe specific information in the log file that indicates the attack
named in part E (i).
iii. Describe one way an automated system could halt this type of attack in
real time.
iv. This attack could be mitigated by an automated system, such as a firewall,
IDS, IPS, or AI. Identify a different countermeasure that could mitigate,
prevent, or deter the attack.
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents

-- 173 of 192 --

Answer Key and
Question Alignment to
Course Framework
Multiple-Choice 	Answer 	Skill 	Learning Objective
Question
1 	B 	1.C 	3.1.C
2 	B 	2.D 	5.2.D
3 	D 	2.B 	5.2.C
4 	C 	2.C 	3.4.B
5 	D 	1.A 	4.2.A
6 	C 	2.B 	4.2.C
7 	D 	1.B 	4.2.B
8 	A 	1.A 	1.1.A
9 	D 	1.B 	2.1.A
10 	A 	1.C 	1.1.C
11 	C 	3.D 	5.6.E
12 	B 	3.A 	4.4.A
13 	A 	3.C 	3.5.D
14 	A 	3.D 	3.5.E
15 	B 	2.A 	4.2.A
16 	B 	1.D 	2.2.C
17 	B 	1.A 	2.1.B
18 	A 	3.D 	5.6.E
19 	C 	2.B 	5.5.B
20 	D 	1.B 	5.1.B
21 	C 	2.A 	4.2.C
22 	C 	3.A 	3.5.A
Free-Response Question 	Skills 	Learning Objectives
Device Security Analysis 	2.A, 2.B, 2.C, 2.D,
3.B, 3.D
3.1.A, 3.4.B, 3.4.D, 3.5.A,
3.5.E, 4.1.C, 4.2.D, 4.3.A,
4.3.C, 4.4.A, 4.4.D, 5.1.B,
5.2.D, 5.5.B, 5.6.E
AP Cybersecurity · Exam Information 	return to contents 	167

-- 174 of 192 --

THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

-- 175 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	169
Device Security Analysis 	14 points
Use the given information to respond to parts A, B, C, D, and E. Label any subparts (e.g., i and ii) that may be present.
Part A
Consider the policy for the device in Source 6.
i. Explain how one part of the policy helps protect the device.
ii. Explain how one rule in the current policy could be modified to make the device more secure. Include a specific
example in your response.
Part B
In the authorization log, there is evidence of a password attack in rows 3–12.
i. Describe the evidence in the log file that indicates a password attack. Include specific entries from the log file in
your response.
ii. Identify the IP address of the adversary.
Part C
Consider all the sources from the device.
i. Explain how the permission settings for one file in the /home/jprice/Documents directory determine the
level of access for that file for the owner, group, and all other users on the system. Include the name of the file in
your response.
ii. Other than removing all permissions from all users, describe one way the permission settings for one file on the system
could be configured to restrict access for some users on the device. Include the name of the file in your response.
iii. Using the explanation from part C (ii), write one or more chmod commands that set the permissions described.
Part D
Consider all the sources from the device.
i. Explain how one connection attempt on the device was blocked by the device’s firewall. Include evidence from a log
file in your response.
ii. Other than allowing all traffic for all services, describe a modification to one firewall rule that would allow the
connection attempt identified in part D (i).
iii. Other than allowing the connection attempt identified in part D(i), describe one impact of your modification from
part D (ii) on incoming or outgoing network traffic on the device.
Part E
Apart from the password attack identified in part B, there is evidence of another attack on the device. Consider all the
sources from the device.
i. Determine the type of attack evidenced in a log file.
ii. Describe specific information in the log file that indicates the attack named in part E (i).
iii. Describe one way an automated system could halt this type of attack in real time.
iv. This attack could be mitigated by an automated system, such as a firewall, IDS, IPS, or AI. Identify a different
countermeasure that could mitigate, prevent, or deter the attack.
AP CYBERSECURITY
Scoring Guidelines

-- 176 of 192 --

170 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Model Responses
Part A
i. Not allowing users to connect removable media devices helps protect the device against
malware that could be installed on it. Because the organization does not have control over
external devices, they cannot guarantee that no malware will automatically be installed when
they are plugged into the device.
ii. The AUP could require the system to check for updates within a certain time frame, such as
weekly. If they force the system to check for updates weekly, this will ensure that all patches are
installed in a timely fashion.
Part B
i. There are multiple failed login attempts within seconds of each other all from the same device.
Row 3 is the first failed login at 14:21:01, and 9 seconds later there are 10 failed login attempts
ending on row 12 at 14:21:10.
ii. 203.0.113.25
Part C
i. In the run_tests.sh file, the owner of the file and the group devteam have all permissions (read,
write, and execute) for the file because the first and second groupings have rwx, while all other
users on the system have no permissions for the file because the last grouping has ---.
ii. To harden the report.txt file, they could remove the read permission from both the group and
all other users for this system.
iii. “chmod g-r report.txt” and then “chmod o-r report.txt”
Part D
i. Since firewall rule 10 denies all traffic to port 25 due to the absence of an allow rule, when
the connection attempt from IP 203.0.113.25 occurs on line 22 in the auth log, the attempt to
access port 25 is blocked.
ii. Rule 2 of the firewall could change the port number from 21 to 25.
iii. Changing the port in rule 2 to 25 from 21 would stop all inbound FTP/port 21 traffic to the
device.
Part E
i. Directory traversal attack
ii. In lines 15–17 of the web application log (source 4), there are attempts of “../..”, which is the
classic sign of a directory traversal attack. They are attempting to go back in the file structure
of the system where the web application is hosted—where they could try to access parts of the
system that they should not have access to.
iii. An automated system could notice the malicious signs of a directory traversal attack and shut
down the IP address from accessing the machine. So, in this case, it would stop the IP address
of 203.0.113.45 from accessing the device when it recognizes the “../..” in the URL.
iv. The system could sanitize the user inputs to not allow any “../..” in the URL submitted by the
user.

-- 177 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	171
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part A (i)
(0–1 points)
Point 1
0 points
Does not explain how any part of the
policy helps protect the device.
1 point
Accurately explains how one part of the
policy helps protect the device.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point: 	Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Are vague or unrelated to the policy.
§ 	Describe something not in the policy.
§ 	Do not clearly connect the policy to
improved security.
§ 	Identify something in the policy
without explaining how it protects the
device.
§ 	Explain how a part of the acceptable
use policy protects the device.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Long passwords are good.”
§ 	“Users should avoid downloading
games.”
§ 	“The policy keeps the device safe.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Users need to keep their operating
system and software up to date
because this ensures all known
vulnerabilities are patched,
preventing adversaries from
exploiting them on the device.”
§ 	“Keeping the operating system and
software up to date ensures known
vulnerabilities are patched, reducing
the risk of adversaries exploiting
those vulnerabilities on the device.”
Scoring Guidelines for Question: Device Security Analysis

-- 178 of 192 --

172 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part A (ii)
(0–1 points)
Point 2
0 points
Does not explain a modification to
the current policy or describes a
modification that would not improve
security.
1 point
Accurately explains how one rule in the
current policy could be modified to make
the device more secure, including a
specific example in the response.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Suggest adding a new rule instead of
modifying an existing rule.
§ 	Suggest a modification that would
not enhance security.
§ 	Do not provide evidence from a log
file.
§ 	Identify or describe without
explaining.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Propose a modification to a policy
rule and accurately explain how this
helps make the device more secure.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Allow social media during lunch
breaks.”
§ 	“Let users plug in USB devices if they
think it’s safe.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Modifying the removable media
rule to include blocking wireless
external storage, such as Bluetooth
file transfers, would help prevent
wireless Bluetooth attacks because
it eliminates an additional attack
vector.”
§ 	“Requiring automatic OS updates
instead of manual updates ensures
updates are applied without user
intervention, helping keep the system
up to date and reducing exposure to
known vulnerabilities.”

-- 179 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	173
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part B (i)
(0–1 points)
Point 3
0 points
Does not describe evidence of a
password attack in the authorization
log or identifies the attack but does not
include evidence from a log file.
1 point
Accurately describes valid evidence
in the log file that indicates a password
attack, including specific entries from a
log file in the response.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Mention entries unrelated to failed
authentication attempts.
§ 	Describe normal logins.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Describe multiple failed password
attempts from the same IP address in
quick succession.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Row 14 shows a successful login.”
“There was a CRON job run at 14:29.”
Examples that earn this point:
§
§ 	“Rows 3–12 show repeated failed FTP
login attempts for many usernames
within seconds.”

-- 180 of 192 --

174 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part B (ii)
(0–1 points)
Point 4
0 points
Does not identify the correct IP address
or port in the password attack.
1 point
Accurately identifies the indicated IP
address or port in the password attack.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Provide any IP address other than
203.0.113.25.
§ 	Identify multiple IP addresses.
§ 	Provide a port.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Identify IP address 203.0.113.25 as
the adversary in the attack.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“113.25”
§ 	“203.0.113.25 and 6.117.89.203”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“203.0.113.25”
§ 	“IP address 203.0.113.25”

-- 181 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	175
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part C (i)
(0–1 points)
Point 5
0 points
Does not accurately explain file
permissions or identifies incorrect user
or group permissions.
1 point
Accurately explains how the permission
settings for one file in the indicated
directory determine the level of access
for that file for the owner, group, and all
other users on the system, including the
name of the file in the response.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Misread the permission bits.
§ 	Describe permissions for a file not in
the stimulus.
§ 	Do not list the name of the file.
§ 	Identify or describe without
explaining.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Explain the correct permissions for
owner, group, and others for a chosen
file and identify the file.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Everyone can read notes.md.”
§ 	“deploy_script is open to all users.”
§ 	“The owner can read and write, the
group can read, and all other users
have no permissions.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“For backup.sh, the owner has read,
write, and execute permissions
because the permissions are rwx,
while the group and others have read
and execute permissions indicated
by r-x.”
§ 	“For secrets.key, only the owner
has read and write permissions, as
shown by rw-, while the group and
others have no permissions since no
permission bits are set.”
§ 	“File: report.txt
Owner: read and write since the first
group is rw-
Group: read only since the second
group is r--
Others: read only since the last group
is r--”

-- 182 of 192 --

176 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part C (ii)
(0–1 points)
Point 6
0 points
Does not describe a valid configuration
change to the permissions of one file to
modify access for users on this device.
1 point
Accurately describes one way the
permission settings for one file on
the system could be configured to
appropriately modify access (by granting
or removing permissions) for some users
on the device, including the name of the
file in the response.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Suggest removing all permissions for a
file on this system.
§ 	Suggest removing all access for the
owner.
§
Responses that earn this point:
Do not identify the file name.
§ 	Suggest removing one or more
permissions from a file that it currently
has.
§ 	Suggest removing read, write, or
execute access appropriately.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Remove execute permission from
report.txt for owner.”
§ 	“Remove all permissions so no one
can access it.”
§ 	“Give write permissions to all users on
secrets.key.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Remove read access for the group
and others on report.txt to keep it
private to the owner.”
§ 	“Remove execute permission for the
owner on deploy_script.”
Additional notes:
§ 	The file explained in part C (i) does not have to be the same file discussed in part
C (ii) to earn the point.

-- 183 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	177
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part C (iii)
(0–1 points)
Point 7
0 points
Does not write a valid chmod command
or the command does not match the
permissions described in part C (ii).
1 point
Accurately writes one or more
chmod commands that would set the
permissions described in part C (ii).
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Have incorrect command syntax.
§ 	Have permissions that do not match
the configuration to restrict access
described in part C (ii).
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Use correct syntax, such as chmod
600 filename, or symbolic
modes matching the response in part
C (ii).
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“chmod -rw------- deploy.sh”
§ 	“chmod 777 secrets.key”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“chmod 200 run_tests.sh”
§ 	“sudo chmod go-r report.txt”
Additional notes:
§ 	Correct responses may begin with sudo, but sudo is not required to earn the
point.
§ 	The response may still earn the point for part C (iii) if it did not earn the point
for part C (ii) as long as the chmod command accurately sets the permissions
described in part C (ii).

-- 184 of 192 --

178 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part D (i)
(0–1 points)
Point 8
0 points
Does not explain how a connection
attempt was blocked or identifies an
event unrelated to the firewall.
1 point
Accurately explains how one connection
attempt on the device was blocked by
the device’s firewall, including evidence
from a log file in the response.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Reference a login failure not caused
by the firewall.
§ 	Indicate a successful login attempt.
§ 	Indicate multiple attempts being
blocked where at least one attempt is
incorrect.
§ 	Do not provide evidence from a log
file.
§ 	Identify or describe without
explaining.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Correctly identify a line from a log file
and a firewall rule that would prevent
the attempt in the log file, and explain
why it would be prevented.
§ 	Indicate how more than one
connection attempt is being blocked
by the firewall.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“User admin failed login because of a
wrong password.”
§ 	“SSH from 192.168.1.50 was
blocked.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Source 3 line 22 shows a blocked
TCP SYN packet to port 25 from
203.0.113.25 because no firewall rule
allows traffic on port 25.”
§ 	“In line 25 of the auth log, a
connection attempt to port 77 is
blocked by the firewall, as access to
port 77 is not permitted.”

-- 185 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	179
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part D (ii)
(0–1 points)
Point 9
0 points
Does not describe a valid change to a
firewall rule or suggests a modification
that does not allow the connection
attempt identified in part D (i).
1 point
Accurately describes a modification
to one firewall rule that would allow
the connection attempt identified in
part D (i).
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Suggest adding another deny rule to
the firewall.
§ 	Suggest altering an unrelated firewall
rule.
§ 	Suggest allowing a modification that
would allow all traffic for all services.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Suggest a change that would allow
the connection attempt from
part D (i).
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Change rule 3 from allow to deny.”
§ 	“Disable the firewall.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Modify rule 8 to allow port 25 before
the final deny-all rule.”
Additional notes:
§ 	The response may still earn the point for part D (ii) if it did not earn the point for
part D (i).

-- 186 of 192 --

180 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part D (iii)
(0–1 points)
Point 10
0 points
Does not describe the impact of the
modification suggested in part D (ii).
1 point
Correctly describes one impact of the
modification suggested in part D (ii) on
incoming or outgoing network traffic on
the device.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Do not include an accurate impact of
the firewall change.
§ 	Include an incorrect impact of the
firewall change.
§ 	Only references the connections in
part D (i) or part D (ii) being impacted.
§ 	Reference a different change than
was recommended in part D (ii).
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Describe an impact of implementing
the modification to the firewall as
described in part D (ii).
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“It would block all adversaries.”
§ 	“It would stop brute force attempts.”
§ 	“It would allow the connection that
was blocked originally by the firewall.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“Allowing port 25 would permit email
traffic into the device but could
expose the system to SMTP-based
attacks.”

-- 187 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	181
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part E (i)
(0–1 points)
Point 11
0 points
Does not determine the type of attack.
1 point
Accurately determines the type of
attack evidenced in a log file.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Identify a type of attack not
supported by the evidence.
§ 	Indicate multiple attack types where
at least one attack is incorrect.
§
Responses that earn this point:
Indicate a password attack.
§ 	Identify directory traversal as the
type of attack.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Ping flood attack”
§ 	“DDoS attack”
§ 	“ARP poisoning and directory
traversal”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“There is evidence of a directory
traversal attack.”
§ 	“Directory traversal”

-- 188 of 192 --

182 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part E (ii)
(0–1 points)
Point 12
0 points
Does not describe how specific entries
indicate the attack using evidence from
the log or gives a description unrelated
to the log.
1 point
Accurately describes specific
information in the log file that indicates
the attack named in part E (i).
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Do not include evidence from the log.
§ 	Incorrectly interpret a directory
traversal attack.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Describe how the attack is indicated
using evidence from source 4 lines
15–17 that show attempts, like
“../../../../etc/passwd”.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“The attacker sent a POST request,
which shows they were trying to hack
the server.”
§ 	“There is a lot of traffic, which
indicates an attack.”
§ 	“The system blocked port 25, which
indicates a traversal attack.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“In source 4 line 15, the request
includes ‘../../../../etc/passwd’, which is
a path traversal sequence attempting
to reach system files outside the web
root.”
§ 	“Lines 15–17 show attempts to
access sensitive files like
‘/etc/passwd’ and ‘/etc/shadow’ using
repeated ‘../’, which is a signature of
directory traversal attacks.”

-- 189 of 192 --

AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents 	183
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part E (iii)
(0–1 points)
Point 13
0 points
Does not describe how an automated
system could halt this type of attack.
1 point
Accurately describes one way an
automated system could halt this type of
attack in real time.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Reference making changes to the
system prior to the attack.
§ 	Indicate an action that would not stop
the attack.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Correctly state that an automated
system would notice the malicious
traffic and give a way to stop this
traffic.
§ 	Correctly state more than one way an
automated system would stop this
attack immediately.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“The device could install updates to
stop the attack.”
§ 	“The system should deny social
media so attackers can’t get in.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“An IPS could detect repeated ‘../’
patterns and block 203.0.113.45
immediately.”
§ 	“An intrusion prevention system
could monitor for attempts to access
protected files, like /etc/passwd, and
immediately drop the connection and
blacklist the IP.”

-- 190 of 192 --

184 	AP Cybersecurity · Scoring Guidelines 	return to contents
Reporting
Category Scoring Criteria
Part E (iv)
(0–1 points)
Point 14
0 points
Does not identify a valid countermeasure
or provides one already listed in the
prompt.
1 point
Accurately identifies a countermeasure
other than firewall, IDS, IPS, or AI that
could mitigate, prevent, or deter the
attack.
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes
Responses that do not earn this point:
§ 	Identify a firewall, IDS, IPS, or
AI-based countermeasure.
§ 	Do not identify a countermeasure
that would stop this type of attack.
Responses that earn this point:
§ 	Identify sanitizing inputs.
§ 	Indicate not allowing “../..” patterns as
a way to stop this type of attack.
Examples that do not earn this point:
§ 	“Install an IDS.”
§ 	“Disable Telnet from the device as it is
outdated.”
Examples that earn this point:
§ 	“The application could sanitize user
input to remove all ‘../’ sequences
before processing.”

-- 191 of 192 --

collegeboard.org 	© 2026 College Board. APD-882-A

-- 192 of 192 --

